                                 IN THE
                                TWINKLING
                                OF AN EYE

                             By Sydney Watson

                               _Author of_

                         The Mark of the Beast
                   Lifes Lookout, Wops, the Waif,
                                   Etc.

                              Copyright 1918

                           THE BIOLA BOOK ROOM
                      BIBLE INSTITUTE OF LOS ANGELES
                        536-558 South Hope Street
                            Los Angeles, Cal.




AUTHORS FOREWORD

[Illustration]


Some years ago, I received from an important Southern town, a letter
from a Ladies Temperance Committee, to this effect:Sir, We, the
undersigned, are a committee of Ladies, who, for many years, have
purchased your Stories for the People in very large numbers, for free
distribution and loan; always assuming that you were to be thoroughly
relied upon as an upholder of strict Total-abstinence principles. But
your latest story has sadly undeceived us, as regards your usefulness as
a worker in the great cause we are pledged to uphold and further. On _pp_
 of your last story, you make your hero, returning from a days run
with the hounds, come upon a woman lying in a lonely place, who has been
injured in a trap accident. You say, speaking of your heros prompt help
to the woman, that taking his hunting flask from his pocket, he forced
a few drops of the brandy between the womans lips, etc. Now, sir, we
contend that had you had the cause of Total-abstinence fully at heart,
you would have made that huntsmans flask to have contained _water_.

So much for the letter. The moral of it lies on the surface. There are
some persons who seem unable to see anything from the side of _real,
actual_ lifethat Ladies committee could notwhose vision is narrowed
down to the tiny slit of their own cramped, cabined life and thought,
they have no true _out_look upon life, as a whole.

I preface this foreword with the above incident, because I am perfectly
certain that the standpoint from which I have written this book will be
utterly, absolutely misunderstood by many earnest, loving-hearted people,
whose eyes, with my own, have caught the _up_ward gaze from whence we
look for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ.

I would at once acknowledge that the inceptive idea of writing such a
book as this was born within me from reading Long Odds, that wondrous
little half-penny booklet written by the late General Robertson, I
believe, a booklet that has been so marvellously owned and blessed.

For five or six years the idea for this present volume has been simmering
and seething in my mind. The first and only real problem I had to face in
the matter was that of the _principle_ involved in using the fictional
form to clothe so sacred a subject (for, to me, the near Return of our
Lord is the _most_ sacred of all subjects.) But the problem of the
_principle_ was speedily settled, as I remembered how wondrously God had
owned and blessed Long Odds, in which the fictional is the vehicle of
the teaching.

Then, too, there are, I know, myriads of people into whose hands Long
Odds, could never, by any chance, fallfor there are multitudes who
will not so much as glance at, or touch a tract, while a volume will
easily win its way among all classes. There is an enormous percentage of
attendants at our churches and chapels, and many otherwise very earnest
Christian workers, to whom the whole subject of the Lords Second Coming
is an absolutely unknown realm of Truthand these I would fain reach and
arouse with the message of this book.

To those Christians who are looking for the Return of the Lord, to
whom the subject is the most tenderly sacred of all subjects, who will
at first sight condemn the use of the fictional element, the dramatic
colour in this bookand many good people will, I am assuredI would
say, first, that the book is not written for them, and second, that,
our Lord Himself, speaking of His own Return, used two very remarkable
illustrations from lifes strangest dramas. First, _As it was in the
days of Noah, even so shall it be also in the days of the Son of Man.
They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until
THE DAY_, etc. Now, think what a myriad _dramas_ were being enacted
when the flood came. And had the disciples asked their Lord, privately,
after His utterance, to explain more fully what He meant, what thrilling
stories He _could_, He _doubtless WOULD have sketched_. If any Christian
cavils at the dramatic in this book, I would refer him or her to Christs
own pointing in the picture of Noahs time, then bid them fill out, by
help of the feeblest, simplest imagination, the picture of the myriad
dramas that were being enacted when that flood came, of old time. Then,
if the objector is honest, and is _capable_ of the least imagination, he
will say I see! and, now that I see this fact, my wonder is _not_ that
there is a certain dramatic freedom in this book, but that the writer has
kept so powerful a restraint upon his pen.

Again, Christ said:_As it was in the days of LOT_, etc. Now think over
_this_ saying of our Lords, and remembering what is actually recorded
in Genesis, of the _vice_ and _crime_ of Sodom, (and how, alas! even
when saved from the doomed city, Lot and his daughters brought away much
of the vicious, criminal essence of the place with them,) think how the
Return of our Lord, presently, will mean the snatching away of many of
His own out of scenes infinitely more awful than anything I have used
herein, or ever hinted at. A book written on the subject here chosen,
and written in the vein our Lord Himself suggests in the two passages
referred to above, could not have been written in any other wayto be
true to life, and to the subject.

Should any reader object to the expository lectures of Major H, as
the chief vehicle for the doctrinal teaching, I would say that personal
experience has proved the style to be infinitely more acceptable to
readers than that of the dialogue mode.

I have purposely placed special emphasis on the Jewish side of the
subject, since the Jewish question is infinitely more closely enwrapped
with the fact of our Lords near return, than many speakers and writers
give prominence to.

                                                            SYDNEY WATSON.

THE FIRE, VERNHAM DEAN, HUNGERFORD, BERKS.




CONTENTS

[Illustration]


    Chapter                                   Page

         I.TAKEN AT THE FLOOD                  11

        II.THE COURIER                       20

       III.FLOTSAM                             26

        IV.I ONLY REAPED WHAT I SOWED        33

         V.LILY WORK                         38

        VI.AN INTERESTING TALK                 44

       VII.COMING                            55

      VIII.REVERIE                             64

        IX.A THREAT                            75

         X.IN THE NICK OF TIME                 82

        XI.LONG ODDS                         93

       XII.THE CENTER OF THE EARTH            101

      XIII.A DEMON                            110

       XIV.MAJOR H ON THE COMING!         118

        XV.THE ADDRESS                        124

       XVI.HER CABIN COMPANION                136

      XVII.CASTING A SHOE                     142

     XVIII.TOLD IN A CAB                      154

       XIX.TOM HAMMOND REVIEWING              164

      XIXa.MY MENTOR                        176

        XX.THE PLACARD                        185

       XXI.WAS HE MAD                         189

      XXII.FROM THE PROPHETS CHAMBER         195

     XXIII.PASSOVER!                          200

      XXIV.THIS SAYING SHALL COME TO PASS   209

       XXV.FOILED!                            218

      XXVI.A CASTAWAY                         221

     XXVII.A STRICKEN CITY                    226

    XXVIII.HALLELUJAH LASS                  232

      XXIX.IN ST. PAULS                      238

       XXX.CONCLUSION                         246




IN THE TWINKLING OF AN EYE

[Illustration]




CHAPTER I.

TAKEN AT THE FLOOD.


The man walked aimlessly amid the thronging press. He was moody and
stern. His eyes showed his disappointment and perplexity. At times, about
his mouth there lurked an almost savage expression. As a rule he stood
and walked erect. Only the day before this incident one of a knot of
flower-girls in Drury Lane had drawn the attention of her companions to
him as he strode briskly along the pavement, and in a rollicking spirit
had sung, as he passed her:

    Stiff, starch, straight as a larch,
    Every inch a soldier;
    Fond o his country, fond o his queen,
    An hawfully fond o me.

But to-day there is nothing of the soldier in the pose or gait of Tom
Hammond.

Yet the time and place ought to have held his attention sufficiently to
have kept him alert to outward appearance. It was eleven in the forenoon.
The place was Piccadilly. He came abreast of Swan and Edgars. The
pavement was thronged with women on shopping bent. More than one of them
shot an admiring glance at him, for he had the face, the head, of a king
among men. But he had no eyes for these chance admirers.

Tom Hammond was thirty years of age, a journalist, and an exceptionally
clever one, at the time we make his acquaintance. He was a keen, shrewd
man, was gifted with a foresight and general prescience that were almost
remarkable, and hence was commonly regarded by his journalistic friends
as a coming man. He had strongly-fixed ideas of what a great daily
paper should be, but never having seen any attempt that came within
leagues of his ideal, he longedlusted would not be too strong a termfor
the time and opportunity when, with practically unlimited capital behind
him, and with a perfectly free hand to use it, he could issue his ideal
journal.

This morning he seems farther from the goal of his hopes than ever. For
two years he had been sub-editor of a London daily that had made for
itself a great nameof a sort. There were certain reasons which had
prompted him to hope, to expect, the actual editorship before long. But
now his house of cards had suddenly tumbled about his ears.

A change had recently taken place in the composition of the syndicate
that financed the journal. There were wheels within wheels, the existence
of some of which he had never once guessed, and which in their whirling
had suddenly produced unexpected results. The editor-in-chief had
resigned, and the newly elected editor proved to be a man who had, years
before, done him, Tom Hammond, the foulest wrong one journalist can do to
another.

Under the present circumstances there had been no honourable course open
for Hammond but to resign. That morning he had found his resignation not
only accepted, but he found himself practically dismissed.

Enclosed in the letter of acceptance of his resignation was a cheque
covering the term of his notice, together with the intimation that his
services would cease from the time of his receipt of the cheque.

His dejection, at that moment when we meet him, was caused not so much at
finding himself out of employment as from the consciousness that the new
editor-elect had accomplished this move with a view to his degradation in
the eyes of his professionin fact, out of sheer spite.

To escape the crowd that almost blocked the pavement in front of Swan and
Edgars windows, he turned sharply into the road, and literally ran into
the arms of a young man.

Tom Hammond!

George Carlyon!

The greeting flew simultaneously from the lips of the two men. They
gripped hands.

By all thats wonderful! cried Carlyon, still wringing his friends
hand. Do you know, Tom, I am actually up here in town for one purpose
onlyto hunt you up.

To hunt me up!

Oh, lets get out of this crush, old man, interrupted Carlyon.

The pair steered their way through the traffic, crossed the Circus,
stopped for a moment at the beautiful Shaftesbury Fountain, then struck
across to the Avenue. In the comparative lull of that walk Carlyon went
on:

Yes, Ive run up to town this morning to find you out and ask you one
question: Are you so fixed upexcuse the Americanism, old boy. Ive a
dashing little girl cousin, from the States, staying with my mother,
andwell, you know, old fellow, how it is. Mans an imitative creature,
and all that, and absorbs dialect quicker than anything else under the
sun. But what I was going to say was this: are you too fixed up with your
present newspaper to forbid your entertaining the thought of a real plum
in the journalistic market?

Hammonds customary alert look returned to his face. He was now every
inch a soldier, as he cried, excitedly, Dont keep me in suspense,
Carlyon; tell me quickly what you mean.

Lets jump into a gondola, Tom. I can talk better as we ride.

Carlyon had caught the eye of a cab-driver, and the next moment the two
friends were being driven along riverwards.

Someone, some Johnnie or other, began Carlyon, as the two men settled
themselves back in the cab, once called the hansom cab the gondola of
Londons streets

He caught the quick, impatient movement of Hammonds face, and with a
light laugh went on:

But youre on thorns, old boy, to hear about the journalistic plum.
Well, here goes. You once met my uncle, Sir Archibald Carlyon?

Hammond nodded.

He is crazy to start a daily, said Carlyon. It is no new craze with
him; he has been itching to do it for years. And now that gold has been
discovered on that land of his in Western Australia, and he is likely to
be a multi-millionairethe concessions he has already sold have given
him a clear million,now that he is rich beyond all his dreams, he wont
wait another day; he will be a newspaper proprietor. Its a case of that
kiddie in the bath, Tom, doncher-know, thats grabbing for the soaphe
wont be happy till he gets it.

He wants to find at once a good journalist, who is also a keen business
man; one who will take hold of the whole thing. To the right man he will
give a perfectly free hand, will interfere with nothing, but be content
simply to finance the affair.

An almost fierce light was burning in the eyes of the eager, listening
Hammond. A thousand thoughts rioted through his brain, but he uttered no
word; he would not interrupt his friend.

I told Nunkums last night, when he was bubbling and boiling over with
his project, that I had heard you say it was easier to drop a hundred or
two hundred thousand pounds over the starting of a new paper than perhaps
over any other venture in the world.

Nunkums just smiled as I spoke, dropped a walnut into his port glass,
and said quietly, Then Ill drop them.

He hooked that walnut out of his wine with the miniature silver
boathookhe had the thing made for him for the purpose,devoured the
wine-saturated nut, then smiled back into my face, as he said: Yes,
Georgie, I am quite prepared to drop my hundred, two hundred, three
hundred thousand, if needs be, as I did my walnut. But I am equally
hopefulif I can secure the right man to edit and manage my paper,that I
shall eventually hook out an excellent dividend for my outlay. I want a
man who not only knows how to do his own work well, as an editor, but one
who has the true instinct in choosing his staff.

Of course, Tom, I trotted you out before him. He remembered you, of
course, and jumped at the idea of getting you, if you were to be got.
The upshot of it is, nothing would satisfy him but that I should come
up by an early train this morningearly bird catches the worm, and all
that kind of business, you know,and now, in spite of the fact that my
particular worm had wriggled and squirmed miles from his usual habitat,
Ive caught him. Now, tell me, are you open to treat with Sir Archibald?

Yes, and can begin business this very day! Hammond laughed with the
abandon of a boy, as he told, in a few sentences, the story of his
dismissal.

Good! Carlyon, in his own exuberant glee, slapped his friends knee.

Sir Archibald, he went on, was to come up by the 10:05 from our place,
due at Waterloo at 11:49. Hell be fixed upHail Columbia! againat the
hotel by this time. Thats where we are driving to now, andah! here we
are!

A moment later the two men were mounting the hotel steps. One of the
servants standing in the vestibule recognized Carlyon, and saluted him.

My uncle arrived, Bates? Carlyon asked.

Yes, sir, and a young lady with him!

Carlyon turned quickly to Hammond.

Thats Madge, my American cousin, Tom. Im awfully glad she has come; I
should like you to know her.

Turning to the servant, he asked, Same old rooms, Bates?

Yes, sir.

Three steps at a time, laughing and talking all the while, Carlyon,
ignoring the lift, raced up the staircase, followed more slowly by his
friend.

Hammond never wholly forgot the picture of the sitting-room and
its occupant, as he entered with Carlyon. The room was a large one,
exquisitely furnished, and flooded with a warm, mellow light. A small but
cheerful-looking wood fire burned upon the tiled hearth, the atmosphere
of the room fragrant with a soft, subtle odour, as though the burning
wood were scented. From a couch, as the two men entered, a girl rose
briskly, and faced them. She made a picture which Tom never forgot. The
warm, mellow light that filled the room seemed to clothe her as she stood
to meet them. America was stamped upon her and her dress, upon the
arrangement of her hair, upon the very droop of her figure. She was tall,
fair, with that exquisite colouring and smoothness of complexion that is
the product of an unartificial, hygienic life.

Her face could not be pronounced wholly beautiful, but it was a face that
was full of life and charm, her eyes being especially arrestive.

Awfully glad you came up, Madge! cried Carlyon. Ive run my quarry
down, and this is my own particular, Tom Hammond.

He made a couple of mockingly-funny elaborate bows, saying: Miss Madge
Finisterre, of Duchess County, New York. Mr. Tom Hammond, ofoh, shades
of Cosmopolitanism!of everywhere, of London just at present.Tom bowed
to the girl.She returned his salute, and then held forth her hand in a
frank, pleasant way, as she laughingly said, I have heard so much of
Tom Hammond during the last few days, that I guess you seem like an old
acquaintance.

Tom shook hands with the maiden, and for a moment or two they chatted as
freely and merrily as though they were old acquaintances.

The voice of Carlyon broke into their chat, asking: Wheres Nunkums,
Madge?

Before the girl could reply, the door opened and Sir Archibald entered
the room.

One glance into his face would have been sufficient to have told Tom the
type of man he had to deal with, even if he had not seen him before.
A warm-hearted, unconventional, impulsive man, a perfect gentleman in
appearance, but a merry, hail-fellow-well-met man in his dealings with
his fellows.

With a bit of mock drama in the gesture, Madge Finisterre flourished her
hand towards the newcomer, crying,

Sir Archibald, George? Lo, he is here! She flashed a quick glance to
the piano as she added, If only I had known you were about to enter,
uncle, I would have treated you to a few crashing bars of stage-life
entree-music.

Go away with your nonsense! laughed the old man.

Nonsense, indeed! the girl laughed as merrily as the old man. Then,
with a sudden, swift movement, she crossed to the piano, struck one sharp
note upon it, and whispered in well-feigned hoarseness, Slow music for
the three conspirators as they retire to plot the destruction of Londons
press, and the accumulation of untold millions by their own special
journalistic production!

Her fingers moved over the ivory keys, and low, weird, creepy music
filled the room with its eerie notes.

Sir Archibald and George Carlyon fell in with the girls mood, and crept
doorwards on tiptoe.

Number three, hissed the girl.

And Tom Hammond laughingly followed with the two other men.

She is a treat, is Madge! laughed George Carlyon, as the three men
passed through the doorway and made for the study-like room of Sir
Archibald.




CHAPTER II.

THE COURIER.


For two hours the three men held close conference together. At the end
of that time all the preliminaries of the new venture were settled. Tom
Hammond had explained his long-cherished views of what the ideal daily
paper should be. Sir Archibald was delighted with the scheme, and, in
closing with Hammond, gave him a perfectly free hand.

You were on the point of saying something about a striking poster to
announce the coming paper, Mr. Hammond, said the old baronet.

Yes, Tom replied; I think a great deal may be done by arresting
the attention of the peoplethose in London especially. My idea for
a poster is this: the name of the paper is to be The Courier. Very
well, let us have an immense sheet poster, first-class drawing, striking
but harmonious colouring, and bold, arrestive title of the paper and
announcement of its issue. Following the title, I would have in the
extreme left a massive sign-post, a prominent arm of the structure
bearing the legend To-morrow. On the extreme right of the picture I
would put another sign-post, the arm of which should bear the words The
Day After To-morrow. I would have a splendidly-drawn mounted courier,
the horse galloping towards the right-hand post, having left To-morrow
well in the rear.

The old baronet exclaimed, Rush the thing on! Flood the hoardings of
London, Edinburgh, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Cardiffall the
large towns, and the smaller ones as well, if you can get hoardings big
enough. Dont study the expense, either in the get-up or in the issue of
the picture. Dont let the pill-sellers or cocoa or mustard people beat
us.

The old man sprang to his feet and paced the floor, rubbing his hands,
crying continually,

Good! good! Well wake old England up. Well

Toddle into lunch, interrupted George Carlyon. Thats the third
summons weve had!

Tom Hammond sat next to Madge at luncheon, and was charmed with her easy,
unconventional manners. But his mind was too full of the new paper, of
the great opportunity that had come to him so unexpectedly, to be as
wholly absorbed with the charm of her personality as he might otherwise
have been.

He did not linger over the luncheon table.

There are one or two fellows, Sir Archibald, he explained, whom I
should like to secure on my staff at once. I dont want to lose even an
hour.

As he bade Madge Finisterre good-bye, he expressed the hope that he might
see her again soon, and the girl in reply allowed her eyes unconsciously
to express more than her words.

She is the most charming woman I ever met, he told himself, as he
followed Sir Archibald into his room for the final word for which the
baronet had asked. George Carlyon had remained behind with Madge.

It was about the first working expenses I wanted to speak to you, Mr.
Hammond, the baronet began. They were seated in the baronets room.

I will have fifty thousand poundsor shall we say a hundred
thousand?deposited, at once, in your name atwhat bank?

Any good bank you please, Sir Archibald, so long as the particular
branch is fairly central.

Capital and Countieshow will that do? the baronet asked, adding, I
always bank with them myself.

That will do, sir.

How about the Ludgate Hill branch, Mr. Hammond?

Could not be better, sir.

Settled, then, Mr. Hammond! There were a few more words exchanged
between master and man, and then they parted.

As Tom Hammond strode along the Embankment towards Waterloo Bridge, his
heart was the heart of a boy again.

Is life worth living! he cried inwardly, answering his own question
with the rapturous words: In this hour I know nothing else that earth
could give me to make life more joyous!

People passing him saw his face radiant with a wondrous joy. Its rare
to see peace, even, in faces in our great cities. It is rarer still to
see joys gleam. He allowed his glance to flash all around him, as he
murmured, I am glad, too, that I am in London. Who dare say that London
is dull, or grim, or sordid? Who was it that wrote, No man curses the
town more heartily than I, but after travelling by mountains, plain,
desert, forest, and on the deep sea, one comes back to London and finds
it the most wonderful place of them all!

Ah! It was Roger Pocock, I believe, wrote that sentiment. Roger Pocock,
I looks towards yer, sir. Thems my senterments!

He laughed low and gleefully at his own merry mood. Then as his eyes took
in the river, the moving panorama of the Embankment, and caught the throb
of the mighty pulsing of life all about him, Le Galliennes lines came to
him, and, while he moved onward, he murmured:

    London, whose loveliness is everywhere.
    London so beautiful at morning light,
    One half forgets how fair she is at night.

    London as beautiful at set of sun
    As though her beauty had just begun!
    London, that mighty sob, that splendid tear,
    That jewel hanging in the great worlds ear.

    Ah! of your beauty change no single grace,
    My London with your sad mysterious face.

He moved forward in a strange rapture of spirit. He forgot even
beautiful London; he was momentarily unconscious how he travelled
or whither. He might have been blind or deaf for all that he now saw
or heard. The drone of a blind beggars voice reading the Scriptures,
however, presently had power to break his trance. He paused a moment
before the man.

This same Jesus, droned the blind mans voice, who is taken up from
you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen Him go.

Hammond dropped a sixpence into the beggars box, and moved away, the
wonder of the words he had just heard read arresting all his previous
thoughts of his glad success.

Shall so come in like manner! he murmured. I wonder what it means?

The next instant a womans pitiful voice filled his ear, crying:

For the love of God, good sir, give me the price of a piece of bread.

He turned sharply towards her. Her face was haggard and hunger-filled;
her eyes were wells of despair. He slipped his finger and thumb into the
fob of his coat. The first coin that came to his touch was a shilling. He
dropped it into the emaciated, outstretched palm.

The wretched creature gazed at the coin, then at him. Her lips moved, but
no words came from them. Her eyes filled with a rush of tears. He passed
on. But the incident moved him strangely.

If Christ, he mused, ever comes back to earth again, surely, surely He
will deliver it from such want and misery as that!

He paused and looked back at the woman. Her face was buried in her hands.
Her form was shaking with sobs. Curiosity tempted him to go back.

As he came abreast of her, a child, a girl about nine, barefooted and
tired-looking, was saying to the woman, Whats the matter, missis?
Wouldnt that swell giv yer nuffink wen yer arst im?

Give me nothing? The woman glanced down at the child. Why, he is
kinder than Gawd, fur he give me a shilling!

At this Tom Hammond hurried away.

Kinder than God! he murmured. Oh, God, that we should have it in our
power to buy such happiness for so small a sum!

Kinder than God he repeated to himself. He was now mounting the granite
steps to the bridge. Of course, one knows better; yet how difficult of
proof it would become, if one had to explain it to that poor soul, and
to the thousands like her in this great city!

For the first time since leaving Sir Archibald his own joy was forgotten.
The awful problem of Londons destitution had supplanted Londons beauty
in his thoughts.




CHAPTER III.

FLOTSAM.


Only nine hours!

Tom Hammond laughed amusedly at his own murmured thought. It seemed
ridiculous almost to try to believe that only nine hours before he had
been a discharged journalist, while now he was at the head of what he
knew would be the greatest journalistic venture Londonyea, the worldhad
ever seen.

He had just dined. He felt that he wanted some kind of movement, some
distraction, to relieve the tension. He was in that frame of mind when
some kind of adventure was necessary, although he did not tell himself
this, being hardly conscious of his own need. He knew that the haunts of
his fellowsclub, theatre, music-hallwould only serve to irritate him.
Some instinct turned his feet riverwards.

It was now a quarter past seven oclock. Night had fallen upon London.
Tom Hammond crossed the great Holborn thoroughfare. The heavier traffic
of Londons commercial life had almost ceased. The omnibuses going west
were filled with theatregoers, and other pleasure-seekers. Hansoms
flitted swiftly either way, each holding a man and a woman in evening
dress.

Having crossed the roadway, he paused for a moment at the corner of
Chancery Lane, and let his eye take in all the scene. And again Le
Gallienne came to his mind, and he softly murmured:

    Ah! London! London! our delight,
    Great flower that opens but at night,
    Great city of the midnight sun,
    Whose day begins when day is done.

    Lamp after lamp against the sky
    Opens a sudden beaming eye,
    Leaping alight on every hand,
    The iron lilies of the Strand,

    Like dragonflies the hansoms hover
    With jewelled eyes to catch the lover;
    The streets are full of lights and loves,
    Soft gowns and flutter of soiled doves.

He turned with a faint sigh, and began to pass on down Chancery Lane.

Oh, London! he mused, thy surface may be wonderful and beautiful; but
belowwhat are you below the surface?

    The human moths about the light
    Dash and cling in dazed delight,
    And burn and laugh, the world and wife,
    For this is London, this is life!

    Upon thy petals butterflies,
    But at thy root, some say, there lies
    A world of weeping, trodden things,
    Poor worms that have not eyes or wings.

He moved onwards in the direction of the Law Courts. Presently he neared
the Waterloo Bridge approach. He had, all unrealized by himself, since he
left the restaurant where he had dined, been walking towards the river.
A moment or two after, and he was leaning on the parapet of the bridge,
looking down into the dark waters. Sluggish, oil-like in appearance, as
seen in the dull gleam of the lamps, the river moved seawards. A sudden
longing to get out upon those dark waters came to him.

If only he mused. Then, turning briskly, he came face to face with a
man in a blue guernsey, who was crossing the bridge. It was the very man
of his half-uttered thought. If only I could run up against Bob Carter!
he had almost said.

Good evening, Mister Hamnd. The man in the guernsey saluted with a
thick, tar-stained forefinger as he recognized Tom Hammond.

Good evening, Carter. Hammond laughed as he added, I was just wishing
I could meet you, for I felt I should like to get out on the river.

Im jes going as fur as Lambeff, sir. Ef yer likes ter go wif me,
youll do me proud, sir; yer know that, I knows!

A few minutes later the two men sat in Carters boat. Hammond, in the
stern, was steering. The man Carter, on the first thwart, manipulated the
oars. Hammond had known the man about a year. He had done him a kindness
that the waterman had never forgotten.

Awd go to ther worlds end fur yer, sir, he had often said since.

The man was ordinarily a silent companion, and to-night after a few
exchanged words between the pair, he was as silent as usual.

Down the wide, turgid river the boat, propelled by Carters two oars,
shot jerkily, the rise and fall of the glow in the rowers pipe-bowl
synchronizing with the lift and dip of the oars.

Hammond enjoyed the silence. There was a weirdness about this night
trip on the river that fitted in with his mood. His brain had been
considerably overwrought that day. The quiet row was beginning to soothe
the overwrought nerves. Where he sat in the stern of the boat, he
faced the clock-tower at Westminster. The gleaming windows of the great
embankment hotels lay behind him. A myriad electric lights were on his
right hand. The gloom and darkness of the unlighted wharfage on the
Surrey side were on his left.

Only by a waterway miracle Carter cleared an anchored barge that, defying
the laws of the river, carried no warning light.

Drat em! growled the man Carter. They oughter do a stretch in
Portlan or Dartmoor fur breakin the lor. Theres many a onest waterman
whose boats foun bottom-up, or smashed to smithereens, an whose bodys
foun, or isnt, jes, as the case may be, all becos they lazy houns is
too ide-boun to light a lamp, cuss em!

His growl died away in his throat. The glowing fire of his pipe rose and
fell quicker than ever, telling of a fierce anger burning within him.

Ssh! he hissed. Hammond saw that his face was turned shorewards. He
heaved aft towards Hammond, and whispered, Kin yer see that woman, sir?
He jerked his chin in the direction of a line of moored barges.

Hammond had turned his head, and could plainly discern the form of a
woman standing on the edge of the outer barge of the cluster.

The men in the boat sat still, but watchful.

Do she mean sooerside, sir? whispered Carter. Looks like it, sir.
Dont make a soun.

Even as he spoke the woman leaped into the air. There was a low scream, a
splash, a leap of foam flashed dully for one instant, then all was still
again.

The waterman plied his oars furiously. Hammond steered for the spot where
that foam had splashed. An instant later the boat was over the place
where the body had disappeared. Carter lay on his oars, and peered into
the darkness on one side. Hammond strained his eye on the other side.

With startling suddenness a hand darted upwards within a foot of where
Hammond sat in the stern of the boat. In the same instant the womans
head appeared. Hammond reached out excitedly, and caught the back hair
of the woman, twisting his fingers securely into the knot of hair at the
back of her head.

Carter shipped his oars, and in two minutes the wretched woman was safe
in the boat. Her drenched face gleamed white where they laid her. A low
whimpering sob broke from her.

Turn er over on her face a little, sir, while I makes the boat fast fur
a minute or two, sir, jerked out the waterman.

Pore soul ov er! he went on, knotting his painter to a bolt in the
stern of a barge. She ave took in a bellyful of Thames water, an it
aint filtered no sort, thats sartin!

Hammond had by this time turned the woman over on her face.

Carter came aft bearing a water-beaker in his hands.

Ill lift her legs, sir, he said, and you put this beaker under her,
jes above her knees; thatll elp her a bit.

That was done, and almost instantly the woman was very sick.

In my locker there, sir, Ive got a drop o whisky. I keeps it there fur
mergencies like this, said Carter.

Hammond moved to allow the man to reach a seat-locker in the stern. The
next minute, while Hammond supported the woman, the waterman poured a
few drops of the spirit down her throat.

She coughed and sputtered, but the draught restored her. She began to cry
in a low, whimpering way.

We must get her ashore, Carter, cried Hammond. Ill take the oars,
and, as you know the riverside better than I do, just steer into the
nearest landing-place you know.

Carter leaped to the bows, cast off the painter, and hurried aft again.

Jes long yere, sir, theres an old landin asll jes serve us. Wots
yer fink ter do wi the pore soul, sirnot and her over to the perlice?

No, neither the police nor workhouse, Carter. I wish I could see her
face, and see what kind of woman she is.

By way of reply, Carter struck a match, and lit a small bulls-eye
lantern. When the wick had caught light, he flashed it on the face of the
woman.

Her eyes were closed, her face was deadly pale. Her hair was dishevelled.
But in the one flashing glance Hammond took at her, he recognized her.

Its Mrs. Joyce! he muttered half-aloud and in amazed tones.

Know er, sir? asked the waterman.

A little! he replied. Her husband is a reportera drinking scamp.

Carter shut off the light of the bulls-eye, at that moment.

Were jes ere now, sur, sos best not to be callin tention like wi
a light.

He steered the boat into a kind of narrow alley-way between two crazy old
wharves.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hammond, rightly gauging the kindly heart of his landlady, had brought
the drenched woman in a cab to his lodgings. She was still in a
half-fainting condition when he carried her into the house. In two
sentences he explained the situation to the landlady, whose natural
kindness and loyalty to her lodger made her willing to aid his purpose of
rescue.

I will carry her up to the bath-room, he said. Let your girl get a cup
of milk heated as hot as can be sipped, while you bath this poor soul
quickly in very hot water. Then let her be got to bed, and have some
good, nourishing soup ready. Shell probably sleep after that. And in the
morningwell, the events of the morning will take their own shape.

Half-an-hour later, as Hammond took a cup of coffee, he had the
satisfaction of knowing that the woman he had saved was in bed, and doing
well.

Poor soul! he mused. That brute of a husband has probably driven her
to this attempt on her life. I wonder what her history was before she
married, for I remember how it struck me, that day when I saw her at the
office, that she was evidently a woman of some culture.

It was nearly ten now. He had no desire to go out again. It wanted two
hours quite to his usual bed-time. But a strange sense of drowsiness
began to steal over him, and he went off to his bed.

What a day this has been! he muttered, as he laid his head on the
pillow.




CHAPTER IV.

I ONLY REAPED WHAT I SOWED.


Hammond awaited the woman whom he had saved from drowning.

She has slept fairly well, the landlady told him, and I made her eat a
good breakfast that I carried up to her myself, Mr. Hammond!

Now he waited to speak to her. A moment or two more, and the landlady
ushered her into the room, then slipped away.

How can I ever repay you, sir! cried the woman, seizing the hand that
Hammond held out to her.

For a moment or two her emotion was too great for further speech. Hammond
led her to an armchair and seated her. She sobbed convulsively for a
moment or two. He allowed her to sob. Presently tears came. The paroxysm
passed, the tears relieved her, and she lifted her sad, beautiful eyes to
his face.

You knowoh, yes, you must know, Mr. Hammond(I recognized you last
night)how I came to be in the water. I tried to take my life. I was
miserable, despairing! God forgive me.

His strong eyes were full of a rare tenderness, as he said, But, Mrs.
Joyce, you surely know that death is not the end of all existence. I am
not what would be called a religious man, but every fibre of my inward
being tells me that death does not end all.

He saw a shiver pass over her, as she hoarsely replied, I, too, realize
that this morning, Mr. Hammond. But last night the madness of an
overwhelming despair was upon me. My life had been a literal hell for
years, until yesterday I could bear it no longer. I was famished with
hunger, sick with despair, and

She sighed wearily. Perhaps, she went on, if you knew all I have
borne, you would not wonder at my rash, mad act.

Tell me your story, Mrs. Joyce, he said, gently. It may relieve your
overcharged heart, and, anyhow, I will be your friend, as far as I can.

She sighed again. This time there was a note of relief, rather than
weariness, in the sigh.

My father was a well-to-do farmer, she began, in North Hants. I was
the only child, and I fear I was spoiled. I received the best education
possible, and loved my studies for their own sake, for culture, in all
its forms, had a strong attraction for me. I had been engaged to a young
yeoman farmer for nearly a year. I had known him all my life, and we had
been sweethearts even as children. Then there came suddenly into my life
that man Joyce, for whom I sacrificed everything. God only knows how he
contrived to exercise such an awful fascination over me as to make me
leave everyone, everything, and marry him.

For a moment she paused, and shuddered. Her voice, when she spoke, again,
was hollow, and full of tears.

I killed my father by eloping on the very eve of my arranged marriage
with Ronald Ferris. Ronald left the country as soon as he could wind up
his affairs. And Iwell, here in this mighty Babylon, I have ever since
been reaping some of the sorrow I had sown. Not a penny of my fathers
money ever reached me, and that brute Joyce only married me for what he
expected to get with me. He has done his best to make earth a hell for
me, and I, in my mad blindness, last night, almost exchanged earths
fleeting hell for Gods eternal hell.

A look of shame filled her eyes as she lifted them to Hammond.

What you reminded me of just now, Mr. Hammond, I, deep down in my soul,
know only too wellthat death does not end all. My father was a true
Christian, and a lay preacher. I have travelled with him hundreds of
times to his preaching appointments, playing the harmonium and singing
solos for him in his services. More than once the sense of Gods claim
upon me was so great as almost to compel my yielding my heart and life.
Would to God I had! But my pride, my ambitions, strangled my good
desires, and, as I said just now, I broke my fathers heart. I killed
him, and ruined all my own life, though I have no pity for myself. Then
London life, my husbands brutality, my own misery, all helped to drive
even the memory of God from my mind.

Yet, broke in Hammond, the Christian religion teaches that sorrow and
suffering ought to drive the possessor of the faith nearer to God.

There was a hint of apology in his tones as he went on:

Dont misunderstand me, Mrs. Joyce; I only speak from hearsay. I have
heard parsons preach it, but I know nothing experimentally about these
things myself.

She smiled in a slow, sad way, and, catching her breath in a kind of
quick sob, said: Neither have I ever known anything experimentally of
these truths. I drifted into the outward form of a correct, religious,
life. I learned to like the brightness of our chapel services, the fun of
choir practice, the merry company, the adulation heaped upon me for my
solo-singing. Then there were the tea-meetings, the service of song, and
a multitude of other mild excitements which went to brighten the monotony
of a rural existence. But of God, of Christ, of the Divine life, I fear I
knew nothing.

Hammond smiled inwardly as he listened to this strange confession. The
phraseology was new to him.

It is the shibboleth of Nonconformity, I suppose, he told himself. And
I suppose each section of religious society has its own outward form of
things in which it trusts, thinking, caring, nothing for the great Divine
verities that should be the true religious life.

He did not utter his thoughts aloud, but asked with some apparent
irrelevance, Where is your husband, Mrs. Joyce?

Off on one of his drinking bouts, or maybe, locked up for drunkenness; I
cannot say.

Her lifted eyes were full of beseeching, as she went on, You will keep
secret, Mr. Hammond, all this wild, mad episode of my life. If only I
could know that the sad, mad, bad story was locked up between God and
you, your kind landlady and myself, I think I could go back and face my
misery better.

Do not fear, Mrs. Joyce, he replied quickly. The affair shall be as
though it had never been. I can answer for Mrs. Belcher, my landlady; and
for myself I give you my word, and

God reward you, sir! she sobbed. Already you have given me clearer
views of Him than any minister or any sermon ever did.

A few moments later Mrs. Joyce rose to leave. He pressed three sovereigns
into her hand, and in spite of her tearful protestations made her take
the money.

If you are ever in desperate need, come to me, or write me, Mrs. Joyce,
and I will help you, if I can. Meanwhile, be assured that the little I
have done for you I would have done for any stranger, for, after all, the
human race is linked by a strange, a mighty family tie. Good-bye.

She wrung the hand he gave her, then with a sudden, impulsive movement
she lifted it sharply to her lips and kissed it with a tearful
passionateness.

The next moment she was gone. His hand was wet with her tears.

Poor soul! he muttered.

Passing across the room to the window, he glanced out. She was moving
down the street. Her handkerchief was pressed to her eyes.

How strange, he murmured, as he turned from the window, are
these chance encounters in life! Like ships at sea, we sight, hail,
exchange some kind of greeting, then pass on. Do we, after all, I
wonder, unconsciously influence each other in these apparently trivial
life-encounters? If so, how? Take this episode now, for instance. Will my
encounter with that poor soul have any effect on my life, or on hers? If
so, what?




CHAPTER V.

LILY WORK.


The room we now enter is a large one. It is close under the roof of a
house in Finsbury. The man there at work pauses for a moment.

The room is a workshop. The man is a Jewbut what a Jew! He might have
posed to an artist as a model, a type of the proudest Jewish monarch over
Israel. Face, form, staturenot even Saul or David or Solomon could have
excelled him.

The room held the finished workmanship of his hands for the three past
years. And now, as he paused in his laboura labour of lovefor a moment,
and drew his tall form erect, and lifted his face to the window above
him, a light that was almost holy filled his eyes.

God of our fathers, he murmured, God of the Holy Tent and of the
Temple, instruct me; teach my fingers to do this great work.

He let his hands fall with an almost sacred touch upon the chapiter he
had been chasing. He wist not that his face shone with an unearthly
light, as for a moment his lips moved in prayer. Then quietly reaching a
thick old book from a shelf, he opened it at one of its earlier pages,
and read aloud.

And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, See, I have called by name
Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah: and I
have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding,
and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, to devise cunning
works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in cutting
of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all kinds
of workmanship. And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son
of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are
wise-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee: the tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the
testimony, and the mercy-seat that is thereupon, and all the furniture of
the tabernacle.

The lightit was now almost a firedeepened in his eyes. A rare, a rich,
cadence filled his voice as he read the holy words. His fingers moved to
the middle of the book. It easily opened at a certain place, as though it
had been often used at that page. Again he read aloud:

And the chapiters that were upon, the top of the pillars were of lily
work, ... and the chapiters upon the two pillars had pomegranates also
above, ... and the pomegranates were two hundred, in rows round about
upon the other chapiter, ... and he set up the pillars in the porch of
the temple: and he set up the right pillar, and called the name thereof
Jachin (He shall establish); and he set up the left pillar, and called
the name thereof Boaz (In it is strength). And on the top of the
pillars was lily work: so was the work of the pillars finished.

With a reverent touch the man closed the book, replaced it on the shelf,
then, lifting his eyes again to where the cold, clear light streamed down
through the great skylight in the ceiling, he murmured:

How long, O Lord, shall Thy people be cast off and trodden down, and
their land, Thy land, be held by the accursed races?

For a moment a look of pain swept into his face. Then, as he became
conscious of the touch of his lowered hand upon the chapiter, his eyes
travelled downwards to the exquisite lily work, and the light of a new
hope swept the pain off his face.

The very fact that the time has come, he murmured, for us to be
preparing for the next temple, is a token from Jehovah that the day of
Messiah draweth nigh.

His eyes lingered a moment on the rare and beautiful workmanship, then
he took up a chasing tool and continued his toil; yet, while he worked
he kept up a running recitative of Ezekiels description of the great
templefor he knew by heart all the chapters of that prophet.

As he presently repeated the words: And the Prince in the midst of them,
when they go in, shall go in; and when they go forth, shall go forth, he
lifted his eyes with a deep holy rapture shining in all his face.

He closed his recitative with a ringing note of triumph in his voice, as
he cried, It shall be round about eighteen thousand cubits: and the name
of the city from that day shall be Jehovah-ChammahThe Lord is there.

There was a moment of absolute silence. The graver was still, the hand
that held it might have been stone, so rigid did it become. The lips of
Abraham Cohen moved, but no other sound came from him save the words
Jehovah was there, and he prayed aloud.

In the midst of his rapt devotion the door of the workroom opened. The
slight sound aroused the dreamer. He turned his face in the direction of
the door, and his eyes flashed with pleasure.

Ah, Zillah! he cried in greeting. The girl he addressed closed the
door, thus shutting out the odour of frying fish. She crossed the floor
quickly, with a certain eagerness, and came towards him with a rare
grace. She was singularly beautiful, of an Eastern style of beauty. Her
complexion was of the Spanish olive tone, and her melting eyes were of
that same Spanish type. Her haira wondrous crown of itwas blue-black.
She had a certain plumpness of form that seemed to add rather than take
from her general beauty. She was sister to his wife.

Supper will be ready in five minutes, Abraham, she began. Will you be
ready for it?

He smiled down into her great black eyes. He was never very keen on his
meals. He ate to live only; he did not live to eat. She knew that, and
had long since learned that his labour of love was as meat and drink to
him. Her eyes glided past him and rested on his work.

It is very beautiful, Abraham! she cried. There was reverence as well
as rapture and admiration in her voice and glance.

It cannot be too beautiful, Zillah, he returned.

Her eyes were on his work. His were on her face. He read in it the
rapturous admiration of his workmanship.

When will the Messiah come? she sighed.

Soon, I believe! he returned. Jehovah rested in His creative work
after six days labour. A thousand years with Him are as one day. May it
not well be, then, that as there have passed nearly six thousand years
(each thousand years, representing one day) that He will presently rest
in His finished work for His people, through the coming of the Messiah,
as He did at the creation?

He laid his tool aside, and turned to the beautiful girl, as he continued:

Besides, do not our sacred books say that when three springs have been
discovered on Mount Zion, Messiah will come? Two springs have lately
been discovered by the excavators in Jerusalem, and our people out there
excitedly watch the work of these men, expecting soon the discovery of
the third spring.

Her eager, parted lips told how she hung upon his speech. He smiled down
gratefully into her great black lustrous eyes, though a sigh escaped him
as he said:

Ah! I wish Leah would only show a little of the interest in all this,
that you do, Zillah!

You must not blame Leah too much, Abraham, the girl answered quickly.
She has her children, you know. Mother always said that if ever Leah had
babies, that there would be nothing else in the world for her except the
babies. Besides, Abraham, no two of us are constituted alike, and Leah is
what the Gentiles about here call happy-go-lucky. But, Abraham, tell me
more of what you think of Messiahs coming. Leahs five minutes will be
sure to run to a quarter of an hour.

I do think Messiah is coming soon, cried the young fellow excitedly.
Who knows? Perhaps when the Passover comes again, and we set His chair,
and open the door for Him to enter, that He will suddenly come. Did I
tell you, Zillah, about the date discovery at Safed, in Palestine?

No, what is it? The girls face glowed with a strange earnestness, her
voice rang with it.

Safed, he went on, quickly, is a little town to the north-west of
Galilee. Our Rabbi there has discovered from our sacred books, that
Messiahs coming, and the overthrow of our enemies, will be in the
year five thousand six hundred and sixty-sixnineteen hundred and six
according to the Gentile reckoning. Our Father Moses, and all the
children of Israel sang, when Jehovah delivered them from the Red
Sea:Yea, by the force of Thy swelling waves hast Thou demolished those
who arose against Thee. Thou didst discharge Thy wrath, it devoured
them up like stubble. Our Rabbisand even the Christian Gentile
teachersagree that the deliverance of our race from Pharaoh, and the
destruction of his hosts, picture our races future as well as its past.
And the numerical value of Thou shalt overthrow (part of those two
song-stanzas I have just repeated) gives the date I have mentioned as the
time of our deliverance from all our troubles, when Messiah shall come.

There was a sudden clatter of little feet outside at that moment, and a
boy and a girl burst into the room.

What do you think, father? cried the boy, with the excited
impulsiveness of a child bursting with news. A boyhes a Gentile, of
coursewhom I know says that Messiah has come, that the cursed Nazarene
was He, and that

We will go to supper, Reuben, and you and I will talk about that another
time. Cohen spoke quietly to his boy. He had his own reasons for
checking the subject at that time.

His aunt caught the boys hand, and danced with him out of the room.
Rachel, the little girl, a wondrous miniature of Zillah, clung to her
father, and the whole family trooped off to wash their hands before the
meal.




CHAPTER VI.

AN INTERESTING TALK.


The Courier was now an established fact. As a newspaper it was as much
a revelation to the journalists as to the general public. London had
taken to it from the first moment of its issue. The provinces, instead
of following their usual course of waiting to see what London did, took
their own initiative, and adopted the new paper at once. Every instinct
about the ideal paper, felt and nursed during the waiting years by Tom
Hammond, had been true instinct. He had always felt them to be true; now
he realized the fact. He was a proud man, a happy man.

One curious feature of the new journal had attracted much attention,
even before the publication of the first issue. In his Foreword, as he
had termed it, in a full page announcement that appeared in three of the
leading London dailies, Tom Hammond had said:

An important feature of the Courier will be the item or items (as the
case may be) which will be found each day under the heading, From the
Prophets Chamber. A greater man than the editor of The Courier once
said, Every editor of a newspaper ought to have a strain of the seer in
his composition. He ought to have the gift of prophecy up to a certain
point. He ought to be so thoroughly conversant with the history of his
own and every other nation that when history is on the point of repeating
itselfas it has a habit of doing,he may not be caught altogether
napping. It is the unexpected that happens, we say.

True, but there are many of the so-called happenings of the unexpected
that to the spirit of the seer will have been expected and more than
half-prophesied.

Now, while we propose that the whole tone of The Courier shall show
the spirit of the seer in a measure, we shall endeavour to make the
particular column to which we are now alluding essentially new. In it
we shall deal with every class of subject likely to prove mentally
arrestive to our readers, and shall make it prophetic up to the limits
of our capacities as man, citizen and editor. How far the possession of
the quality of the seer will be found in us we must leave the futureand
our readersto decide. But we certainly anticipate that The Prophets
Chamber column will be one of the most popular features of what we shall
aim to make the most popular paper of the day.

Tom Hammond was no believer in luck. He had left nothing to chance in the
production of his paper. There was not a department left to subordinates
which he did not personally assure himself was being carried out on the
best, the safest, lines. For weeks he literally lived on the spot where
his great paper was to be produced, taking his meals and sleeping at an
hotel close by the huge building that housed The Courier.

He saw very little of Sir Archibald Carlyon during these weeks, and
nothing at all of George, or the fair American, Madge Finisterre. George
was in Scotland; Madge on the Continent.

His thoughts often turned to the American girl, and his eye brightened
and his pulse quickened whenever he heard of her from Sir Archibald.

Once he had been permitted by Sir Archibald to read a gossipy letter sent
by her to the old baronet. He laughed over a quotation in that letter.

I am not like the Chicago girl, she wrote, of whom our Will Carleton
writes, who, telling all about her tour in Urop, says,

    Old Scotland? Yes, all in our power,
      We did there to be through;
    We stopped in Glasgow one whole hour,
      Then straight to Edinborough.
    At Abbotsford we made a stay
      Of half-an-hour precisely.
    (The ruins all along the way
      Were ruined very nicely.)

    We did a mountain in the rain,
      And left the others undone,
    Then took the Flying Scotchman train,
      And came by night to London.
    Long tunnels somewhere on the line
      Made sound and darkness deeper;
    No; English scenery is not fine
      Viewed from a Pullman sleeper.

    Oh, Paris! Paris! Paris! Tis
      No wonder, dear, that you go
    So far into ecstasies
      About that Victor Hugo!
    He paints the city, high and low,
      With faithful pen and ready.
    (I think, my dear, I ought to know,
      We drove there two hours steady.)

I feel, Madge had written, that one wants a life-time to do the
Continent.

Tom Hammonds thoughts often flew to the gay girl. This morning, having
seen a review of Carletons latest book of ballads, he had been reminded
of her, and he laid down his pen a moment, as he gave himself up to a
little reverie about her. An announcement aroused him.

Miss Finisterre and Mr. Carlyon, sir.

He smiled to himself. Talk of angels, etc., he mused.

The next moment he was greeting his callers. Madge Finisterre looked, in
Tom Hammonds eyes, more radiant now than ever.

Fancy, Mr. Hammond, she laughed, when the greetings were over, George
and I met at Dover! He had come south to see a friend off from Dover, and
was on the pier when I landed from the Calais boat. Weve been down to
that dear old country house, but I wanted to do some shopping, and to see
how you looked as editor-in-chief and general boss of the biggest daily
paper in the world.

Tom Hammonds eyes flashed with a pleased light at her confession, which
implied that she had thought of him, even as he had thought of her. He
noted, too, how an extra shade of colour warmed the clear skin of her
cheeks as she made her confession.

Because, she went on, all the world declares that The Courier is the
premier paper of the world, and everyone who is anyonein the know of
things, I meanknows that Mr. Tom Hammond is The Courier.

The talk, for a few minutes, was shop.

You dont go in for a column of comic, Madge presently said. If you
did, I could give you an item, we, George and I, heard in the train as we
ran up to town. There were two of your English parsons in our carriage,
talking in that high-faluting note that always reminds me of your
high-pitched church service,dearly-beloved-brethren note.

Well, the two parsons were telling yarns one against the
otherchestnuts were cheap, I assure you,and one of them told a story
he tacked on to General Booththe last time I heard it, it was told of
Spurgeon. He said that the General was going down Whitechapel, and,
seeing the people pouring into a show, and wondering what there was so
powerfully attractive to the masses in these shows, he determined to go
into this particular one. It was advertised as a Museum of Biblical
Curiosities. Just as he got in, the showman was exhibiting a very rusty
old sword, and saying,

Now, yeres a werry hinterestin hobject. This is the sword wot Balaam
it is hass wiv, cos ee wouldnt go. Booth speaks up, and says,

Hold hard there, my friend; youre getting a little mixed. Balaam
hadnt got a sword. He said, Would that I had a sword.

Thats all right, guvnor, cried the showman; this is the sword ee
wished ee ad.

The girls mimicry of the coster-showmans speech was inimitable, and the
two men laughed as much at her telling as at the tale itself.

George Carlyon got up from his seat, saying, But I say, you two, do you
mind if I leave you to amuse each other for an hour? I want, very much,
to run down to the club. Ill come back for you, Madge, or meet you
somewhere.

Bless the boy! she laughed. Do you think I was reared in an incubator,
or in your Mayfair? Havent you learned that, given a Yankee girls got
dollars under her boots to wheel on, it aint much fuss for her to skate
through this old country of yours, nor yet through Europe, come to that,
even though she has no more languages under her tongue than good plain
Duchess county American. I told the boys that before I left home.

George Carlyon laughed, as, accepting his release, he nodded to the pair
and left the room.

It was a strangely new experience to Tom Hammond, to be left alone with a
beautiful and charming woman like Madge Finisterre.

The picture she made, as she moved round the room looking at the framed
paintings, all gifts from his artist friends, came to him as a kind of
revelation. When he had met her that day in the Embankment hotel, he
had been charmed with her beauty and her frank, open, unconventionality
of manner. He had thought of her many times sinceonly that very day, a
moment before her arrival,thought of her as men think of a picture or a
poem which has given them delight. But now he found her appealing to him.

She was a woman, a beautiful, attractive woman. She suggested sudden
thoughts of how a woman, loved, and returning that love, might affect his
life, his happiness.

Her physical grace and beauty, the exquisite fit of her costume, the
perfect harmony of itall this struck him now. But the woman in her
appealed strongest to him.

Awfully good, this sketch of street arabs! she turned to say, as she
stood before a clever bit of black-and-white drawing.

An end of a lace scarf she was wearing caught in a nail in the wall. He
sprang forward to release the scarf. It was not readily done, for his
fingers became infected with a strange nervousness. Once their hands met,
their fingers almost interlocked. A curious little thrill went through
him. He lifted his eyes involuntarily, and met her glance. A warm colour
shot swiftly into her face. And he was conscious at the same moment that
his own cheeks burned.

I guess Ill sit down before I do any more mischief, she laughed.

Woman-like, she was quicker to get at ease than he was.

Do you know, Mr. Hammond, she went on, as she seated herself in a
revolving armchair, I just wanted very much to see how you were fixed up
here, and how you looked now that you are a big man.

He made a deprecatory little gesture.

Oh, but you are a really great man, she went on. I have heard some big
people talk of you, and say

She leaned back, and smiled merrily at him, as she went on,

Well, I guess if theres only a shadow of truth in the old saying, then
your ears must often have burned.

Madge Finisterre gave the chair in which she was sitting a half twist.

Why dont you British people go in for rockers? she asked. I simply
cant enjoy your English homes to the full, for want of a good rocker,
wherever I go.

An indiarubber bulb lay close to his hand. He pressed it without her
noting the movement. A clerk suddenly appeared. Hammond looked across at
Madge, with an Excuse me, Miss Finisterre, one moment.

He drew a sheet of notepaper towards him. The paper was headed with The
Courier title and address.

Send me, at once, unpacked and ready for immediate use, the best
American drawing-room rocking-chair you have in stock. Send invoice, cash
will follow, etc.

That was what he wrote. He enclosed it in an envelope, then on a separate
slip of paper he wrote:

Take a cab, there and back, to Walliss, Holborn Circus. See how smart
you can be; bring the chair, ordered, back with you.

From his purse he took a four-shilling piece, and gave the young fellow
the note, the slip of instructions, and the coin.

As the attendant left the room, he turned again to Madge, who, utterly
unsuspicious of the errand on which he had sent his employee, was amusing
herself with a copy of Punch. She looked up from the paper as the door
closed.

I like The Courier immensely, Mr. Hammond, she cried. There was a
rare warmth of admiration in her tone.

Thank you, Miss Finisterre! His eyes said more than his words, what do
you specially like in it? he asked; or is your liking of a more general
character?

I do like it from a general standpoint, she replied; I think it the
best paper in the world. But especially do I like your own particular
column, From a Prophets Chamber. But, Mr. Hammond, about the Jewyou
are going in strong for him, arent you?

From the ordinary newspaper point, yes, he said. I cannot quite
recall how my mind was first switched on to the subject, but I do know
thisthat the more I study the past history of the race, and the future
predictions concerning it, the more amazed I am, how, past, present, and
future, the Jews, as a nation, are interwoven with everything political,
musical, artisticeverything, in fact. And I wonder, equally, that we
journalists, as a wholeI speak, of course, as far as I know my kinsmen
in lettersshould have thought and written so little about them.

Take their ubiquitousness, Miss Finisterre, went on Hammond. There
does not appear to have been an empire in the past that has not had its
colony of Jews. By which I do not mean a Ghetto, simply, a herding of
sordid-living, illiterate Hebrews, but a study colony of men and women,
who, by sheer force of intellect, of brain power, have obtained and
maintained the highest positions, the greatest influence.

Why, in China, even, isolated, conservative China, before Christ was
born in Bethlehem, the Jews were a prosperous, ubiquitous people,
worshipping the one God, Jehovah, amidst all the foulness of Chinese
idolatries.

Madge Finisterre listened with rapt interest. The man before her, fired
with his subject, talked marvellously. A good listener helps to make a
good talker, and Tom Hammond talked well.

It is not simply that they practically hold the wealth of the world in
their hands, that they are the worlds bankers, but they are dominating
our press, our politics.

With glowing picture of words he poured out a flood of wondrous fact and
illustration, winding up presently with:

Then you cannot kill the Jew, you cannot wipe him out. Persecution has
had the effect of stunting his growth, so that the average Britisher is
several inches taller than the average Jew. But the life of the Hebrew
is indestructible. Sometimes of late I have asked myself this question,
as I have reviewed the history of the dealings of so-called Christianity
with the Semitic raceHas Christianity been afraid of the Jews, or why
has she sought to stamp them out?

The pair had been so engrossed with their talk that they had lost all
count of time. A half-hour had slipped by since Tom Hammond had sent his
messenger to Walliss. The young fellow suddenly appeared at the door.

Got it, Charlie?

Without waiting for a reply to his question, the editor bounded from his
seat and passed outside. Thirty seconds later the door opened again, and
he appeared, bearing a splendid rocker in his arms.

Before she fully realized the wonder of the whole thing, Madge found
herself seated in the rocking-chair. Swaying backwards and forwards, and
blushing and smiling, she cried:

You are a wonderful man, Mr. Hammond!

You said you could never fully enjoy our English houses for want of a
rocker. Now, however angelic your visits to this room may be, you shall
have one inducement to slip ina rocker.

She was beginning her thanks again, when he interrupted with:

But, excuse me, Miss Finisterre, what about some tea? Shall we go out
and get some, or would you prefer that I should order it in here?

Oh, here, by all means! I can have tea at a restaurant every day of
my life, but with a real London liona real live editorand in his own
special den. Why, it may never fall to my lot again. Oh, here, by all
means! she cried, excitedly.

He squeezed that rubber bulb again. To the lad Charlie, who appeared, he
gave a written order to a neighbouring restaurant. Twenty minutes later
the tea was in the room.

Madge officiated with the teapot. Hammond watched her every movement.
A truly pretty, graceful girl never looks handsomer to a man than when
presiding at a tea-table. Tom Hammond thought Madge had never looked more
charming. The meal was a very enjoyable one, and as she poured out his
second cup he paid her a pretty compliment, adding:

To see you thus, Miss Finisterre, makes one think what fools men are not
to

He paused abruptly. She flashed a quick glance of enquiry at him.

Not to what, Mr. Hammond?

I wonder, he replied, if I ought to say what I left unsaid?

Why not? she asked.

I dont know why I should not, he laughed. I was going to say that, to
have a bright, beautiful, graceful woman like Madge Finisterre pouring
out tea for him, makes a man think what a fool he is not to marry.

His tone and glance were alike full of meaning. She could not mistake
him. Her colour heightened visibly. Her eyes drooped before his ardent
gaze. The situation became tense and full of portent.

The opening of the door at that instant changed everything. George
Carlyon had returned. At the same moment a wire was brought to Hammond,
together with a sheaf of lettersthe afternoon mail.




CHAPTER VII.

COMING.


George Carlyons entrance, the arrival of the afternoon mail, and the
telegram gave Madge Finisterre an opportunity to escape. George Carlyon
was anxious to leave, and Madge rose at once to accompany him.

Tom Hammond did not press them to stay, for he, too, felt awkward. The
friends shook hands. The eyes of Madge and Hammond met for one instant.
Each face flushed under the power of the others glance.

When the door had closed upon them, Tom went back to his old place by the
table, his eyes involuntarily sweeping the whole apartment. He smiled as
he suddenly realized how empty the room now seemed. His glance rested
upon the tea-tray, and he rang for the lad Charlie.

Clear all this away, Charlie, please, he began. Then with a smile he
said, You will find a capital cup of tea in that pot.

The boy grinned. At his first glance at the tray he had mentally decided
that he would be able to have a rare feast. A couple of minutes, and the
boy had gone.

Tom Hammond gathered up his mail, and was about to drop into his ordinary
seat, when he remembered the rocker. With a smile at Madges occupancy of
the chair, he dropped into it.

For fully five minutes he sat still thinking, reviewing all the
circumstances of the peculiar situation upon which the unexpected coming
of George Carlyon had broken. He asked himself whether he was really in
love with the fair Madge, and whether he would have proposed to her if
her cousin had not so unexpectedly turned up? He made no definite reply
to his own questioning, but turned to his mail.

The telegram he had opened at once on its receipt. He turned now to the
letters. He had opened all but two. The last one was addressed in a
womans hand-writing. Breaking the envelope, he took out the letter, and
turned first to the signature on the fourth page.

Millicent Joyce, he read. Millicent Joyce? he repeated. Unconsciously
he had laid his emphasis on the Millicent, and he forgot the Joyce.

But suddenly it came to him that the letter was from Mrs. Joyce, the
woman whom he had helped to save from drowning on the night of that
memorable day when the great chance of his life had come to him.

Poor soul! he muttered. I wonder what she has written about? The next
instant he was reading the letter.

Tom Hammond cast his eyes over the letter which Mrs. Joyce had sent him,
and which ran thus:

    Dear Sir,

    I gave you my word that if ever I was in special trouble or
    need I would write, or come to you for help.

    I did not promise you, however, that if any great joy or
    blessing should come to me, that I would let you know. I dont
    think I believed any joy could ever possibly come into my life
    again. But joy and wondrous gladness have come into my life,
    and in an altogether unexpected way.

    You will remember how I said to you in parting, that morning,
    that your strong, cheery words had given me a clearer view of
    God than any sermon I had ever listened to. That impression
    deepened rather than diminished when I got home. My husband,
    I heard, had been sent to Wandsworth Prison for a month, for
    assaulting the police when drunk.

    And in this month of quiet from his brutalities, the great joy
    of my life came to me. I began to attend religious services
    from the very first night after my return home. I went to
    church, chapel, mission hall, and Salvation Army.

    One night I went to the hall of the Mission for Railway Men. A
    lady was speaking that night, and God found me, and saved me.
    All that I had ever heard from my dear fathers lips, when he
    preached about conversion, came back to me, and that night I
    passed from death to life.

    The subject of the address was The Coming of the Lord. I
    listened in amazement as the lady speaker declared that, for
    this age, God evidently meant that this truth of the near
    coming of Christ should have almost, if not quite, the most
    prominent place in all public preaching.

    I was startled to hear her say that there were nearly three
    hundred direct references to the second coming of Christ in the
    Gospels and Epistles, and that there were thus more than double
    the number of references to that subject than even to that of
    salvation through the blood of the Atonement.

    With her Bible in her hand, she turned readily to a score of
    passages as illustrations of her statement, and all through her
    address she never made a statement without backing it up by
    Scripture. One thing she said laid a tremendous grip upon me,
    and led me to an immediate decision for Christ: she said, How
    often is the possibility of sudden death advanced by a preacher
    as an incentive to unsaved souls to yield to God!

    But how poor an argument is that compared with the near
    approach of Christ! Sudden death might come to one person in
    a congregation before twenty-four hours, but in a sense, that
    would touch that one person only. But if Christ came to take up
    His people from the earththe dead in Christ from their graves,
    the living from their occupations, etc.,this would affect
    every unsaved soul in every part of the country, of the world,
    even.

Tom Hammond paused in his reading.

What on earth can she mean? he murmured, under his breath. Then he went
on from the letter:

    I gave myself up to God there and then, Mr. Hammond, and am
    seeking now to live so that, should Christ come, even before I
    finish this letter, I may be ready to be caught up to meet Him
    in the air.

Hammond paused again.

What can the woman mean? he murmured again. With the letter held in
his hand, his eyes became fixed upon space, his mind was searching for
something that he had recently heard or read bearing on this strange
topic. The clue seemed almost within grasp, yet for awhile he could not
recall it.

Suddenly it came to him. A volume of poems had been sent to him for
review, amid the excitement of the second days issue of The Courier.
He had glanced rapidly through the book, had written a brief line for his
paper, acknowledging the receipt of the book, and promising to refer to
it fully at some later date.

That book, he mused, had something in it aboutabout

He got up from the rocker, took his place at his table, then wheeled
about slowly in his revolving chair, and began searching his book-case.
In an instant his keen eye picked out the volume he sought. He wheeled
round again to his table, the book in his hand.

He turned a moment to the title-page. Ezekiel and Other Poems, he read.
By B. M.

B. M., he mused, Whom have I heard writes under those initials? Ah! I
remember! Mrs. Miller.Barbara Miller.

He ran the gilt-edged leaves rapidly through his practised fingers, his
quick eye catching enough of the running pages to satisfy him. Suddenly
he paused in his search. His eye had lit upon what he sought, and he
began to read:

                               COMING.

    At even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing, or in the
    morning.

    It may be in the evening,
      When the work of the day is done,
    And you have time to sit in the twilight
      And watch the sinking sun,
    While the long, bright day dies slowly
      Over the sea,
    And the hour grows quiet and holy
      With thoughts of Me;
    While you hear the village children
      Passing along the street,
    Among those thronging footsteps
      May come the sound of My feet.

    Therefore I tell you, Watch,
      By the light of the evening star,
    When the room is growing dusky
      As the clouds afar;
    Let the door be on the latch
      In your home,
    For it may be through the gloaming
      I will come.

He paused in his reading for a moment, for, like a voice near by, the
drone of that blind beggars reading came to him, as he had heard it that
day on the embankment.

This same Jesus shall so come in like manner as ye have seen Him go.

I remember, he mused, how that sentence arrested me. My mind was
utterly pre-occupied a moment before, but that wondrous sentence pierced
my pre-occupation.

His eyes dropped to the poem again, and he read on:

    It may be when midnight
      Is heavy on the land,
    And the black waves lying dumbly
      Along the sand;
    When the moonless night draws close,
    And the lights are out in the house;
    When the fires burn low and red,
    And the watch is ticking loudly
      Beside the bed.
    Though you sleep, tired out, on your couch,
    Still your heart must wake and watch
    In the dark room;
    For it may be that at midnight
      I will come.

He read rapidly, but more eagerly interested each moment. The next
section he scarcely paused upon, but the fourth he lingered over, and
then read it the second time:

    It may be in the morning,
      When the sun is bright and strong,
    And the dew is glittering sharply
      Over the little lawn;
    When the waves are laughing loudly
      Along the shore,
    And the little birds sing sweetly
      About the door;
    With the long days work before you,
      You rise up with the sun,
    And the neighbours come in to talk a little
      Of all that must be done:
    But remember that I may be the next
      To come in at the door,
    To call you from your busy work
      For evermore.
    As you work, your heart must watch,
    For the door is on the latch
      In your room,
    And it may be in the morning
      I will come.

He read on with a strange, breathless interest the next two pages of
poem, then, with a sudden sense of hush upon him, he went carefully over
the concluding lines:

    So I am watching quietly
      Every day.
    Whenever the sun shines brightly,
      I rise and say,
    Surely it is the shining of His face!
    And look unto the gates of His high place
      Beyond the sea,
    For I know He is coming shortly
      To summon me.
    And when a shadow falls across the window
      Of my room,
    Where I am working my appointed task,
    I lift my head to watch the door, and ask
      If He is come;
    And the angel answers sweetly
      In my home:
    Only a few more shadows,
      And He will come.

The face of Tom Hammond, as he laid down the book, was full of a strange,
new perplexity. Strange, very! he muttered. Do you know Joyce, Mr.
Simpson? Hammond asked a reporter. He used to be on the staff of the

Daily Tatler, cried the man. Knew him well years ago, sir. Old
school-fellows, in fact. Got wrong with the drink, sir. Gone to the
dogs, and

Have you seen or heard anything of him this last month, Mr. Simpson?

Yes, sir. Hes grown worse than ever. Magistrate at Bow Street,
committing him for three days, said fellow ought to be put in Broadmoor.
Pity his poor wife, sir. Perfect lady, sir.

You know Mrs. Joyce, then? Hammond queried.

The reporter sighed, Rather, sir! Wished a thousand times I could have
had her for a wife, and hed had mine. I should have had a happier life.
And he

The man laughed grimly. Well, hed have had a tartar!

Hammond had heard something about the shrewish wife Simpson had
unfortunately married. But he had learned all he wanted to know, so
dismissed the poor, ill-married fellow.

I think I must call upon Mrs. Joyce, and learn more about this strange
matter of the coming Christ, he told himself.

He copied the address from the head of the letter into his pocket-book,
then turned to the last letter of his mail.

This proved to be a comparatively short letter, but, to Hammond, a
deeply-interesting one. It was signed Abraham Cohen, and the writer
explained that he was a Jew, who had taken the Courier from the very
first number, and had not only become profoundly interested in the recent
utterances of the editor in the Prophets Chamber column, but he had,
for some days, been impressed with the desire to write to the Prophet.

    Will you pardon me, sir, the letter went on, if I say that
    it would be to your immense advantage, now that your mind has
    become aroused to the facts and history of our race, if you
    would get in touch with some really well-read, intelligent
    Jew who knows our people well, knows their history, past,
    present, and future, as far as the latter can be known from our
    Scriptures and sacred books. Should you care to fall in with my
    suggestion, I should be pleased to supply you with the names
    and addresses of several good and clever men of our people.

                           Yours obediently,

                                                    ABRAHAM COHEN.

As he folded the letter slowly, Hammond told himself that there was
something in the letter that drew him towards the writer.

I will hunt him up, for it is evident that he is as enthusiastic over
his peoples history as he is intelligent. I will see what to-morrow
brings. Now to work.

He put Cohens letter in his pocket, and turned to the hundred and one
editorial claims upon his time.




CHAPTER VIII.

REVERIE.


In spite of the time of the year, the evening was almost as warm as
one in June. Madge Finisterre was on one of the wide hotel balconies
overlooking the Embankment. She had dined with her cousin, George
Carlyon, but instead of going out of town that evening with himhe had
pressed her strongly to go,she had elected to spend a quiet evening
alone.

Londons roar, subdued a little, it is true, at that hour, rose all
around her where she sat. The cup of coffee she had brought to her,
cooled where it stood upon the little table at her elbow. She had
forgotten it.

Her mind was engrossed with the memory of the latter partthe interrupted
partof that interview with Tom Hammond that afternoon.

What would have happened if George Carlyon had not turned up at that
moment? she mused,if we had been left alone and undisturbed another
five minutes?

Her cheeks burned as she whispered softly to herself:

I believe Tom Hammond would have proposed to me. If he had, what should
I have replied?

A far-away look crept into her eyes. She was back again in the little
town where she had been reared, as she herself would have said. We
have many villages in England larger, more populous, more busy, than her
town, but, then, the people of her land talk big.

Before her minds eye there rose the picture of her fathers store, a
huge, rambling concern built of wood, with a frontage of a hundred feet,
and a colonnade of turned wooden pillars that supported a verandah that
ran the whole length.

Every item of the interior of the store came vividly before her mind,
the very odour of the placea curious blend of groceries, drapery, rope,
oils and colours, tobacco,seemed suddenly to fill her nostrils. And in
that instant, though she scarcely realized it, the first real touch of
nostalgia came to her.

She saw the postal section of the store littered with men, all smoking,
most of them yarning. One after another dropped in, and, with a Howdy,
all? dropped upon a coil of white cotton rope, or lounged against a
counter or cask. Dollars and cents floated in speech all around,
while the men waited for the mail. It was late that night.

A week before she had sailed for England, she had gone down to the store,
as she had gone every evening about mail-time, and, entering at the end
nearest her home, she had come upon the scene that had now so suddenly
risen before her minds eye. She had traversed all the narrow alley-way
between the stored-up supplies, from which the various departments were
stocked, singing as she went:

    The world is circumbendibus,
      Were all going round;
    We have a try to fly the sky,
      But still were on the ground.
    We every one go round the sun,
      Were moving night and day;
    And milkmen all go round the run
      Upon their Milky Way.

    Were all circumbendibus,
      Wherever we may be.
    Were all circumbendibus,
      On land or on sea.
    Rich or poor or middling,
      Wherever we are found,
    Were all circumbendibus,
      Were all going round.

She had punctuated the chorus with a series of jerked steps, her high
heels striking the wooden floor in a kind of castanet accompaniment.
Every waiting man had risen to his feet as she came upon them in that
post-office section, and she had answered their rising with a military
salute.

In the great mirror that ran from floor to ceiling of the store, she had
caught a glimpse of herself. She recalled, even now, exactly what she
was wearing that eveninga white muslin frock, a very wide sash of rich
silkcrushed strawberry colourabout her waist, the long ends of the sash
floating behind her almost to the high heels of her dainty bronze shoes.
A knot of the same-hued ribbon, narrow, of course, with streamers flying,
was fastened at her left shoulder. Her wide-brimmed hat was trimmed with
the same colour. She had known that she made a handsome picture before
she read the light of admiration in the eyes of the post-office loungers.

Have you heard the news, boys? she asked.

Aw, guess we hev, Miss Madge.

It was Ulysses Fletcher who had acted as spokesman.

In some surprise, and not altogether pleased, she had wheeled sharply
round to the lantern-jawed Ulysses and asked,

How did you hear the news, Ulysses? Dad didnt tell you, Im sure, for
he promised me I should tell you all myself.

Met a coon down to the depot, an I guess he wur chuck full o it, an
e ups an tells me.

A coon told you? she had cried in ever-increasing amazement.

Sartin, Miss Madge!

A coon! she had repeated. A coontold youdown at the depotthatI
wasgoingto Europe next week!

Every eye had stared in wondering astonishment at Madge Finisterre at
her announcement that she was going to Europe. Then there was a general
laugh, and one of the smartest of the boys had cried:

I low theres been a mistake some, Miss Madge, an that, too, all roun.
Fact is, weve been runnin two separate tickets over this news business,
an thought it wur one an the same. We wur talkin bout Seth Hammonds
herd o hogs as wur cut up by the Poughkeepsie express smarnin.

She had joined in the laugh, and then in reply to the question of another
of the men, as to whether it was really true that she was going to
Urop, she had replied in the affirmative, adding, by way of explanation:

I guess you all know that my momma is British, that she belonged to what
the Britishers call, the Quality. She was the youngest sister of Sir
Archibald Carlyon, was travelling over here, out west, when she was about
my age, got fixed up in an awkward shop by half-breeds, and was rescued
by my dear old poppa. Fact, thats how he came to be my poppa, for she
married him. Spite of her high connections in England, she was very poor,
and she loved dad. If dear momma could only face the water journey,
shed go over with me.

Air you goin alone, Miss? one of the boys had asked.

Thenhow well she remembered it to-night!she had given the answer, part
of which she had given to George Carlyon that very day:

Oh, Ill git all right, boys, you can bet on that, without anyone
dandying around me. For I guess if theres one thing the Britishers are
learning about our women, its thisthat if a United States gels got
dollars under her boots to wheel around on it aint much fuss for her to
skate through their old country, nor yet through Europe, come to that,
even if she has no more language under her tongue than good, plain,
Duchess county American.

With a merry smile, for which there had been no scrambling, since it was
shed upon them all, she had passed on to where she knew she would find
her father, ringing her boot-heels, castanet fashion, as she sang lightly:

    Marys gone wid a coon,
    Marys gone wid a coon;
    Deres heaps o trubble on de ole mans min
    Since Mary flit wid de coon.

How vividly it all came up before her in this hour of quiet reverie! But
her mind flitted swiftly to another scene, one that had been hanging in
the background of all her thought ever since (thinking of Tom Hammond
and the interrupted conversation,) she had been reminded of home and its
happenings.

There had been a Donation Party for their pastor (Episcopalian Methodist)
at the house of one of the members on the very night of the store scene.
Madge had gone, of course. Balhang was wont to say that a Donation Party
simply could not be run without her.

Sitting on that Embankment hotel balcony, with eyes fixed on the lamps,
the river, the bridge, the traffic yet seeing nothing of it all, that
Donation Party all came back to her. Things had been a bit stiff and
formal at first, as they often are at such gatherings.

The adults sat around and talked on current topicshow much turkeys would
fetch for Thanksgiving, whether it would pay best to sell them plucked or
unplucked, what would folks do for cranberries for Thanksgiving, since
the cranberry crop had failed that yearAn turkey wiout cranberry
aint wuth a twist o the tongue.

An squash, suggested one old man. Whats turkey wiout squash? Id
most so soon hev only Boston (i. e., pork and beans) fur dinner as ter
go wiout squash wi turkey.

The young folk had been moping around like draggled chickens on a wet
day when the barn-door is shut. Then, at this juncture, Madge had burst
upon the scene. She swam into the largest room, swirling round and round
with a kind of waltz movement, to the accompaniment of her own gay voice
as she sang:

    I said, My dear, Im glad!
    Said she, Im glad youre glad!
    Said I, Im glad youre glad Im glad,
    It is so very, very nice;
    It makes it seem worth twice the price,
    So glad youre glad Im glad!

With a gay laugh she had turned to the hostess, saying;

Things want hustling a bit here, Miss Julie. Everyone is as glum as a
whip-poor-will that is fixed up with the grippe.

In the quiet of that corner of the hotel balcony she smiled at these
remembrances of her nonsense that night. She had started the young people
playing their favourite games of Whisper, Amsterdam, etc., in two or
three of the smaller rooms; then had raced away again to the room where
the adults were sitting squarely against the wall, as grim as brazen
images. Dropping on to the piano stool, she struck a few soft, tender
notes, suggestive of some very gracious hymn, then suddenly broke into
song:

        Oh, dats so! Oh, dats so!
    Dar is nuffing neath de moon datll satisfy dis coon.
        Like a KIdouble S, kiss,
    Since dat Cupid, wid his dart, made a keyhole in my heart
        For dat MIdouble S, miss.

Behind a corner of the curtain the young pastor had watched and listened.
He had thought his presence unknown to her. He was mistaken.

For three-quarters of an hour she had been the life of that room. Then,
suddenly, as she was singing at the piano, the room grew very quiet. She
was aroused by a voice just behind her ear, saying:

Miss Finisterre, are you going to supper with this first batch, or will
you wait the next turn?

Turning, she found herself face to face with the young pastor, the room
being otherwise empty. His gaze was very warm, very ardent. She had
flushed under the power of that gaze.

She had railed him on his extra seriousness, and he had answered,

Dont, Madge! you must know why I am grave and sad, to-night. (He had
never called her Madge before.)

No, I dont, she had replied.

In less than a week, he went on, so I have heard to-night, you leave
Balhang. You are going to Europe, and will be away long months, perhaps a
year.

She had gazed at him in honest wonder, not fully grasping his meaning.

Why, she asked, should that make you sad?

He had leaned closer towards her. There was no one to see them. The heavy
door-curtain had slipped from its hook, and shut them in. Where her hand
rested on the rounded, polished arm of the piano, his larger hand had
moved, and her white fingers were clasped in his larger ones. His eyes
had sought hers, and, under the hypnotic power of the strong love in his
eyes, she had been compelled to meet his gaze.

I thought, dear, you must have seen how, for a long time, I had learned
to love you, Madge.

His clasp on her fingers had tightened. He had leaned nearer to her
still. No mans face, save her fathers, had ever been so close to hers
before, and the contact strangely affected her. She felt the warmth of
his breath, the heat of his clean, wholesome flesh; even the scent of the
soap he had usedor was it some perfume in his clothing?filled all her
sense of smell.

The perfume was violet, and she remembered to-night how, for many a day,
she could not smell violets without recalling that moment, and seeing
again the strong, earnest, eager face, with the fire of a mighty love
burning in the eyes.

To-night she heard again the yearning, pleading voice as he had cried:
Madge, Madge, my darling! Can you ever guess how great is my love for
you? Tell me, dear, do you, can you, love me in return? Will you be my
wife? Will you come into all my life to bless it? And let me be wholly
yours to help, to bless, to strengthen, to love, to cherish you? Tell me,
darling!

And she had cried, almost piteously:

I dont know how to answer you, pastor. It is all so sudden. I knew, of
course, that we were great friends, and I am sure I like you very much,
butthis proposal! Why, I never dreamed that you cared for me like that,
for how could I be a ministers wife? I am such a gay, thoughtless,
foolish little thingI

There had followed more tender pleading, and she had finally said, If
you love me, Homer, as you say you do, please do not bother me any more
now. Wait until I come back from Europethenthen

What, Madge? he had cried softly, eagerly.

If I can honestly say Yes, she had replied, I will and I will not
even wait for you to ask me again.

He had bent over her. His gaze held her fascinated. She thought he was
going to take toll of her lips before his right was confirmed. But at
that instant there had come a rush of feet, a sound of many voices. The
curtain was flung aside, just as her fingers strayed over the keys of the
instrument, and the pastor succeeded in regaining his old unseen nook.

I guess Miss Julies waitin fur yer, Miss Madge, ter go ter yer
supper, bawled an old deacon of the church.

She had swept the ivory keys with rollicking touch, and sang in gayest
style:

    Allow me to say Ta-ta!
    I bid you good-day. Ta-ta!
        I wish I could stay,
        But Im going away.
    Allow me to say Ta-ta!

Amid the uproarious laughter of everyone in the room, she had bounded
away to supper.

Except for one moment, when she was leaving the house for home, and
he had helped her on with her cloak, the pastor had not spoken again
directly to her that evening. He had managed then to whisper,

God bless you, my darling! I shall pray for you, and live on the hope I
read in your eyes to-night.

It was all this which had risen so strangely before her mind, as
to-night, on that hotel balcony, she had begun to ask herself how much
she really cared for Tom Hammond, and what answer she would have given
him had he proposed to her that afternoon.

I told pastor, she murmured, that night, that I was not sure of
myself. I am no nearer being sure of myself now than I was then.

The scene with Hammond rose up before her, and she added: I am less
sure, I think, than ever!

She gazed fixedly where the double line of lamps gleamed on the
near-distant bridge. For a moment she tried to compare the two livesthat
of an American Methodist pastors wife, with endless possibilities of
doing good, and that of the wife of a comparatively wealthy newspaper
editor-manager.

Should I like to marry a popular man? she asked herself. I read
somewhere once that popular men, like popular actors, make bad husbands,
that they cannot endure the tameness of an audience of one.

She laughed low, and a little amusedly, as she added, Oh, well, Tom
Hammond has not asked me to marry him. Perhaps he never willandwell,
sufficient for the day is the evil thereof. Pastor once preached from
that, I remember.

The night had grown cooler. She shivered a little as she rose and passed
into the lighted room beyond.

Two hours later, as she laid her head upon the pillow, she murmured, I
dont see how I could marry the pastor! Why, I havent got religion
yet. I am not converted, as these Britishers would say!




CHAPTER IX.

A THREAT.


Tom Hammond paused before the house that bore the number at the head of
Mrs. Joyces letter. It was in a mean street, and his soul went out in
pity towards the unfortunate woman, who, with all her refinement, was
compelled to live amid such squalid surroundings.

And heart-starved, too, he mused, pityingly. Heart-starved for the
want of love, of sympathy, of the sense of soul-union that makes life
with a married partner at all bearable.

Yus, sir; Mrs. Joss lives yere. Top floor, lef and side. Yer kin go
hup!

A child had opened the door in response to his knock. Following the
directions given, Tom Hammond climbed the dirty stairs. On the top
landing were two doors. The one on the right was fast shut; that on the
left was ajar a few inches. His approach did not seem to have been heard.
Mrs. Joyce, the only occupant of the room, was seated at a bare deal
table, sewing briskly.

He stretched out his hand to tap at the door, but some impulse checked
him for a moment. He had the opportunity to observe her closely, and he
did so.

She sat facing the window; the light shone full upon her. She was dressed
in a well-worn but well-fitting black gown. Round her throathow pure and
white the skin was!she wore a white turnover collar, like a nurse, white
cuffs at her wrists completing the nurse idea. Her hairshe had loosened
it earlier because of a slight headachehung in clustering waves on her
neck, and was held back behind her ears with a comb on either side. There
was a rare softness and refinement in the pale face that drooped over
her sewing. Seen as Tom Hammond saw her then, Mrs. Joyce was a really
beautiful woman.

He gazed for a few moments at the picture, amazed at the rapidity of her
sewing movements.

The tragedy of Tom Hoods Song of the Shirt, he muttered, as he
watched the gleam of the flying needle.

    Oh, men with sisters dear!
      Oh, men with mothers and wives!
    It is not linen youre wearing out,
      But human creatures lives!
        Stitch, stitch, stitch,
      In poverty, hunger, and dirt,
    Sewing at once, with a double thread,
      A shroud as well as a shirt.

Under the magnetic constraint of his fixed gaze the woman looked towards
the door. She recognized her visitor, and with a little glad cry started
to her feet. Tom Hammond pushed the door open and entered the room. She
sprang to meet him.

Now that he saw her, he realized the expression of her face had changed.
Heavenall the heaven of Gods indwelling pardon, love, peace, had come
to dwell with her. All that she had said in her letter of her new-found
joy, was fully confirmed by her looks.

How good of you to come to see me, Mr. Hammond! she cried, as she felt
the clasp of his hand.

How good of you to write me of your new-found happiness! He smiled back
into her glad, eager eyes.

He took the chair she offered, and with a question or two sought to lead
her on to talk of the subject about which he had come to see her.

The very title of the subject, Hammond explained, is perfectly foreign
to me.

It was all so, _so_ foreign to me, she returned. Then, as swift tears
flooded her eyes, she turned to him with a little rapturous cry, saying,

And it would all have been foreign to me for ever, but for _you_, Mr.
Hammond. I never, _never_ can forget that but for you my soul would have
been in a suicides hell, where hope and mercy could never have reached
me. As long as I shall live I shall never forget the awful rush of
soul-accusation that swept over me, when my body touched the foul waters
of that muddy river that night. The chill and shock of the waters I did
_not_ feel, but the chill of eternal condemnation for my madness and sin
I did feel.

I saw all my life as in a flash. All the gracious warnings and pleadings
that ever, in my hearing, fell from my sainted fathers lips, as he
besought men and women to be reconciled to God, seemed to swoop down
upon me, condemning me for my unbelief and sin. Thenthen you came to my
rescueand

Her tears were dropping thick and fast now.

Andmy soulhad respite given in which totoseek Godbecauseyou saved
my body.

Overcome with her emotion, she turned her head to wipe away the grateful
tears. When next she faced him, her voice was low and tender, her eyes
glowed with a light that Tom Hammond had never seen in a human face
before.

Now, if my Lord come, she said softly, rapturously, whether at
morning, at noontide, at midnight, or cock-crowing, I shall be ready to
meet Him in the air.

I used to think that if ever I was converted, I should meet my dear
father and mother at the last day, at the great final end of all things.

But now I know that if Jesus came for His people to-day, that I should
meet my dear ones to-day. For when the Lord Himself shall descend from
heaven ... the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive
and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet
the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.

Tom Hammond gazed at the speaker in wonder. The glory that filled her
face, the triumph and rapture that rang in her voice, were a strange
revelation to him.

A starvation wage for making slop-shirts, he mused, yet more than
triumphing over every discomfort of poverty by the force of the divine
hope that dominates her! What is this hope?

Tell me of this wondrous thing, Mrs. Joyce, he said, aloud, that can
transmute your poverty and suffering to triumph and rapture, and your
comfortless garret to a heaven on earth.

Before I begin, she replied, tell me, Mr. Hammond, have ever you seen
this?

From the window-shelf she reached a tiny envelope booklet.

Long Odds! he said, reading the boldly-printed title of the book.
No; I have never seen this. It sounds sporting, rather.

Take it, Mr. Hammond, she went on; if it does nothing else, it will
awaken your interest in this wonderful subject.

He slipped the book into his breast-pocket. She opened her mouth to speak
again, when a sound from outside caught her ear. She started to her feet;
her face turned deadly pale. The next instant the door was flung noisily
open, and her husband entered the room.

The blear-eyed, drunken scoundrel glared at the two seated figures, then
laughed evilly as he cried,

Turned religious? Oho! oho! Like all the rest of your religious people,
make a mantlea regular down-to-your-feet ulsterof your religion to
cover every blackness and filthiness of life.

Silence, you foul-mouthed blackguard!

Tom Hammonds lips were white with the indignation that filled him, as he
flung his command to the man.

Silence yourself, Tom Hammond! bellowed the drunken scoundrel. I know
you, he went on. Youre a big bug now! Think no end of yourself, and of
your messing paper. Perhaps youll say you came to invite me to join your
staff, now that Ive caught you here?

His sneering tone changed to one of bitterest hate, as he turned to the
white, trembling woman.

Youre a beauty, aint you? Profess to turn saint; then, when you think
Im clear away, you receive visits from fine gentlemen! Gentlemen? bah!
theyre

Silence, you drunken, foul-mouthed beast! again interrupted Tom Hammond.

There was something amazing in the command that rang in the indignant
tones of his voice.

Unless, he went on, you want to find yourself in the grip of the law.

For a moment or two Joyce was utterly cowed! then the devil in him reared
its head again, and he hissed,

You clear out of here, and remember this; if I have to keep sober for a
year to do it, Ill ruin you, Tom Hammond, I will!

He laughed with an almost demoniacal glee, as he went on:

I can write a par yet, you know. Ill dip my pen in the acid of
hatehate, the hate of devils, my beautyand then get Fletcher to put
them into his paper. Hes not in love with the Courier, or with Tom
Hammond, the Editor.

You scurrilous wretch! It was all that Hammond deigned to reply.

Good day, Mrs. Joyce! he bowed to the white-faced woman.

For her sake he did not offer to shake hands, but moved away down the
stairs.

He caught a hansom a few moments after leaving the mean street. He
had purposed, when he started out that morning, to hunt up his other
correspondent, the Jew, Abraham Cohen. But after the scene he had just
witnessed, he felt quite unwilling to interview a stranger.

I wish, he mused, as he sat back in the hansom, I had not gone near
that poor soul. I am afraid my visit may make it awkward for her.

His eyes darkened as he added: And even for myself. It will be very
awkward if that drunken brute puts his threat into executionand he
_will_, I believe. Innuendo is a glass stiletto, which, driven into the
victims character, into his heart and then snapped off from the hilt,
leaves no clue to the striker of the blow. And a demon like that Joyce,
playing into the hands of a cur like Fletcher, may slay a fellow by a
printed innuendo, and yet the pair may easily keep outside the reach of
the law of libel.

For the first time since the floating of the Courier, his spirits
became clouded.

Then, too, he muttered, there is this sudden breakdown of Marsden,
and, for the life of me, I dont know where to look for a fellow, whom
I could secure at short notice, who is at all fit for the Couriers
_second_.

His face had grown moody. His eyes were full of an unwonted depression.

If only, he went on, Bastin had been in England, and were to be got
He sighed. There was perplexity in the sigh.

Where on earth can Ralph be all these years? he muttered.

He glanced out of the cab to ascertain his own whereabouts. In two
minutes more he would be at the office.




CHAPTER X.

IN THE NICK OF TIME.


As Tom Hammonds cab drew up at the office, another hansom drew up a yard
ahead of his. The occupant alighted at the same instant as did Hammond,
and glanced in his direction. Both men leaped forward, their hands were
clasped in a grip that told of a very warm friendship. Like simultaneous
pistol shots there leaped from their separate lips,

Tom Hammond!

Ralph Bastin?

The friends presently passed into the great building, arm linked in arm,
laughing and talking like holiday school-boys.

Not three minutes ago, as I drove along in my cab, I was saying, Oh! if
only I could lay my hand on Ralph!

They were seated by this time in Tom Hammonds room.

Why? What did you want, Tomanything special? the bronzed, travelled
Bastin asked.

Rather, Ralph! My second, poor Frank Marsden, has broken down suddenly;
its serious, may even prove fatal, the doctors say. Anyway, he wont be
fit (if he recovers at all) for a year or more.

He leaned eagerly towards his friend as he spoke, and asked,

Are you open to lay hold of the post?

Yes.

When?

To-morrow, if you like!

Good!

Hammond stretched his hand out. Bastin grasped it. Then they talked over
terms, duties, etc.

But you, man? said Hammond, when the last bit of shop had been talked.
Where have you been? What have you been doing?

Busy for an hour, Tom? Bastin asked, by way of reply.

No!

Come round to my diggings, then; not farBloomsbury. We can talk as we
go. I shall have time to give you a skeleton of my adventures, to be
filled in later. Then, when we get to my hang-out, I can tell you, when
you have seen _her_, the story of my chief adventure, for it concerns
her.

Hammond flashed a quick, wondering glance at his friend.

_Her!_ he said; are you married, then?

No, laughed Bastin, but Ive adopted a child. But come on, man!

The pair left the office. In the cab, talking very rapidly, Bastin gave
the skeleton sketch of his wanderings, but saying no word of the promised
great adventure.

Tom Hammond never forgot the first sight of his friends adopted child.
There was a low grate in the room, a blazing fire of leaping, flaming
coals in the grate. Curled up in a deep saddle-bag armchair was the
loveliest girl-child Hammond had ever seen.

She must have been half asleep, or in a deep reverie, but as the two men
advanced into the room she sprang from the chair, and, with eyes gleaming
with delight, bounded to meet Bastin. Wreathing her arms about his neck,
she crooned softly over him some tongue of her own.

She was loveliness incarnated. Her eyes, black as sloes, were big, round,
and wide in their staring wonder at Hammonds appearance. Her hair was a
mass of short curls. She was dark of skin as some Spanish beauty.

Her costume lent extra charm to her appearance; for she wore a long,
Grecian-like robe of some light, diaphanous ivory-cream fabric,
engirdled at the waist with a belt composed of some sort of glistening
peacock-green shells, buckled with frosted silver. The simple but
exquisite garment had only short shoulder-sleeves, and was cut low
round the throat and neck, and finished thereas were the edges of the
shoulder-sleeveswith a two-inch wide band of sheeny silk of the same
colour as the shells of her belt. The opening at the neck of the robe
was fastened with a brooch of frosted silver of the same pattern, only
smaller, as the buckle of the belt.

From beneath the silk-bound hem of her robe there peeped bronze slippers,
encasing the daintiest little crimsoned-stockinged feet ever used for
pedalling this rough old earths crust.

Bastin introduced the child. She gave Tom her hand, and lifted her
wondrous eyes to his, answering his question as to her health in the
prettiest of broken English he had ever heard.

A moment or two later the three friends were seatedTom and Bastin in
armchairs opposite each other, the child (Viola, Bastin had christened
her) on a low stool between Bastins knees.

Shall we use the old lingoFrench? Bastin asked the question in the
Bohemian Parisian they had been wont to use together years before.

As you please, Ralph, Hammond replied.

I have told you hurriedly something of where I have been, Bastin began.
But I have reserved my _great_ story until I could tell it to you
here He glanced down at the child at his feet. I heard, he went on,
when at La Caribeas everyone hears who stays long in the placethat
each year, in spite of the laws of the whites, who are in power, a child
is sacrificed to the Carib deities, and I longed to know if it were true.

During my first few weeks sojourn on the little island of Utilla, I was
able to render one of the old priests a service, which somehow became so
exaggerated in his eyes that there was almost literally nothing that he
would not do for me, and eventually he yielded to my entreaties to give
me a chance to see for myself the yearly sacrifice, which was due in a
months time.

During that month of waiting I made many sketches of this wonderful
neighbourhood, and became acquainted with this little Carib maiden,
painting her in three or four different ways. The child became intensely
attached to me, and I to her, and we were always together in the daytime.

As the time drew near for the sacrifice I noticed that the little one
grew very elated, and there was a new flash in her eyes, a kind of
rapturous pride. I asked her no question as to this change, putting it
down as girlish pride in being painted by the white prince, as she
insisted on calling me.

I need not trouble you, my dear fellow, with unnecessary details of how
and where the old priest led me on the eventful night, which was a black
as Erebus, but come to the point where the real interest begins.

It was midnight when at last I had been smuggled into that mysterious
cave, which, if only a tithe of what is reported be half true, has been
damned by some of the awfullest deeds ever perpetrated. My priest-guide
had made me swear, before starting, that whatever I saw I would make no
sign, utter no sound, telling me that if I did, and we were discovered,
we should both be murdered there and then.

We had hardly hidden ourselves before the whole centre of the cave
became illuminated with a mauve-coloured flame that burned up from a
flat brass brazier, and seemed like the coloured fires used in pantomime
effects on the English stage. By this wonderful light I saw a hundred
and fifty or more Carib men and women file silently into the cave, and
take up their positions in orderly rows all round the place. When they
had all mustered, a sharp note was struck upon the carimba, a curious
one-stringed instrument, and the circles of silent savages dropped into
squatting position on their heels. Then the weirdest of all weird music
began, the instruments being a drum, a flute, and the carimba.

But my whole attention became absorbed by the grouping in the centre of
the roomthe fire-dish had been shifted to one side, and I saw a hideous
statue, squatted on a rudely-constructed, massive table, the carved hands
gripping a bowl that rested on the stone knees of the image. The head of
the hideous god was encircled with a very curious band, that looked, from
where I stood, like bead and grass and feather work. The facecheeks and
foreheadwas scored with black, green and red paint, the symbolic colours
of that wondrous race that once filled all Central America.

In the back part of the wide, saucer-like edge of the bowl which rested
on the knees of the statue, there burned a light-blue flame, and whether
it was from this fire, or from the larger one that burned in the wide,
shallow brazier on the floor, I cannot positively say, but a lovely
fragrance was diffused from one or the other.

Before this strange altar stood three very old priests, while seven
women (sukias,) as grizzled as the men, stood at stated intervals about
the altar. One of these hideous hags had a dove in her hand; another
held a young kid clasped between her strong brown feet; a third held the
sacrificial knife, a murderous-looking thing, made of volcano glass,
short in blade, and with a peculiar jagged kind of edge; another of these
hags grasped a snake by the necka blood-curdling-looking tamagas, a
snake as deadly as a rattle-snake.

Opposite the centre-man of the three old priests stood a girl-child,
about ten years of age, and perfectly nude. During the first few moments
the vapourous kind of smoke that was wafted by a draught somewhere, from
the fire-pan on the floor of the cave, hid the childs features, though
I could see how beautiful of form she was; then, as the smoke-wreath
presently climbed straight up, I was startled to see that the child was
my little friend.

In my amaze I had almost given vent to some exclamation, but my old
priest-guide was watching me, and checked me.

My little ones beautiful head was wreathed with jasmine, and a garland
of purple madre-de-cacoa blossoms hung about her lovely shoulders.

Suddenly, like the barely-audible notes of the opening music of some
orchestral number, the voice of one of the priests began to chant; in
turn the two other priests took up the strain; then each of the seven
hags in their turn, and anon each in the first circle of squatting
worshippers, followed by each woman in the second row: and in this order
the chant proceeded, until, weird and low, every voice was engaged.

Suddenly the combined voices ceased, and one womans voice alone rose
upon the stillness; and following the sound of the voice, I saw that it
was the mother of my little native child-friend. I had not noticed her
beforeshe had been squatting out of sight. Hers was not the chant of
the others, but a strange, mournful wail. It lasted about a minute and
a-half; then, rising to her feet, she gently thrust the child forward
towards the altar, then laid herself face down on the floor of the cave.

The little one leaned against the edge of the altar, and taking up, with
a tiny pair of bright metal tongs, a little fire out of the back edge of
the bowl on the knees of the god, she lighted another fire on the front
edge of the bowl, her suddenly-illuminated face filled with a glowing
pride.

Then, at a signal from the head priest, the child lifted her two hands,
extended them across the altar, when they were each seized by the two
other priests, and the beautiful little body was drawn slowly, gently
over, until the smooth breast almost touched the sacrificial fire she had
herself lighted.

Then I saw the woman who had held the knife suddenly yield it up to the
head priest, and I made an unconscious movement to spring forward.

My guide held me, and whispered his warning in my ear: yet, even though
I must be murdered myself, I felt I dared not see that sweet young life
taken.

Like a man suffering with nightmare, who wants to move, but cannot, I
stood transfixed, fascinated, one instant longer. But in that flashing
instant the head priest had swept, with lightning speed, the edge of that
hideous knife twice across the little ones breast, and she stood smiling
upwards like one hypnotized.

The priest caught a few drops of the childs blood, and shook them into
the bowl of the god; then I saw the little one fall into her mothers
arms; there was a second sudden flashing of that hideous knife, a
piteous, screaming cry, and I gave vent to a yellbut not _voice_ to
it,for the watching guide at my side clapped one hand tightly over my
mouth, while with the other he held me from flying out into the ring of
devils, whispering in my ear as he held me back,

It is the goat that is slain, not the child.

Another glance, and I saw that this was so; one flash of that obsidian
sacrificial blade across the throat of the kid had been enough, and now
the blood was being drained into the bowl of the god.

I need not detail all the other hideous ceremonies; they lasted for
nearly two hours longer, ending with a mad frenzied dance, in which all
joined save the priests and the mother and child.

Every dancer, man and woman, flung off every rag of clothing, and
whirled and leaped and gyrated in their perfect nudity, until, utterly
exhausted, one after another they sank upon the floor.

Then slowly they gathered themselves up, reclothed themselves, and left
the cave. And now some large pine torches were lighted, and my guide drew
me further back, that the increased glare might not reveal our presence,
and I saw the curious ending to this weird nights work. The priests
and their seven women sukias opened a pit in the floor of the cave by
shifting a great slab of stone, and lowered the idol into the pit. The
remains of the kid, the sacrificial knife, and the dove were dropped into
the bowl of blood that rested on the knees of the idol; then the sukia
that had held the tamagas snake during the whole of those hideous night
hours, dropped the writhing thing into the bowl, and the slab was lowered
quickly over the pit, every seam around the slab being carefully filled,
and the whole thing hidden by sprinkling loose dust and the ashes from
the fire over the spot.

Then, as soon as the last of the performers had cleared the cave, I
followed my guide, and with a throbbing head, and full of a sense of
strange sickness, I went to the house where I was staying.

I lay down upon my bed, but could not sleep; and as early as I dared I
went round to my little Martaraes homeMartarae was her native name. Her
mother met me, said that the child would not come out in the sun to-day,
that I might see her for a moment if I pleased, but that she was not very
well.

Sweet little soul! I found her lying on her little bed, with a proud
light in her eyes, and a very flushed face.

A fortnight later the light flesh wounds were healed. She showed me her
breast, confided to me the story, and asked me if I did not think she had
much to be proud of.

Will you keep a secret? I asked her. She gave me her promise, and I
told her how I had seen the whole thing, and all my fears for her.

A week later she was orphaned. Her mother was stung by a deadly
scorpion, and died in an hour, and I made the child my care.

She has travelled everywhere with me ever since, and you see how fair
and sweet she is, and how beautifully she speaks our English. She is
barely twelve, is naturally gifted, and is the very light of my life.

Would she let me see her breast, Ralph, do you think? Hammond asked.

Bastin smiled, and spoke a word to the child, and she, rising to her feet
and smiling back at him, unfastened the broach at her throat, and, laying
back her breast-covering, showed the gleaming, shiny scars. Then as she
re-covered her chest, she said softly:

Ralph has taught me that those gods were evil; but though I shall ever
wear this cross in the flesh of my breast, I shall ever love the Christ
who died on the worlds great cross at Calvary.

It is a most marvellous story, Ralph, he said tearing his eyes away
from the childs clear, searching gaze.

The more marvellous because absolutely true, returned Bastin.

Then, addressing Viola, and relapsing, of course, into English for her
sake, he explained who Tom Hammond was, and that he (Ralph) was going to
be associated with him on the same great newspaper.

Mr. Hammond and you, Viola, must be real good friends, he added.

Sure, daddy! the girl said smilingly; I like him much already

She lifted herself slightly until she rested on her knees, and stretching
one hand across the hearthrug to Tom Hammond, she laid the other in her
guardians, as she went on:

Mr. Hammond is good! I know, I know, for his eyes shine true.

A ripple of merry laughter escaped her, as she gazed back into her
guardians face, and added:

But you, daddy, are always first.




CHAPTER XI.

LONG ODDS.


For a wonder, Tom Hammond could not sleep. Usually, when the last thing
had been done, and he was assured that everything was in perfect train
for the mornings issue, he ate a small basin of boiled milk and bread,
which he invariably took by way of a night-cap, then went to bed, and
slept like a tired ploughman. But to-night slumber would have none of him.

It must be the various excitements of the day, he muttered. That story
of Ralphs Caribbean child was enough to keep a fellows brain working
for a week. Then there was meeting Ralph so unexpectedly, just, too, when
I so lusted for his presence and help. Then there was that Joyce item

His mind trailed off to the scene of the morning, every item of it
starting up in a new and vivid light. Suddenly he recalled the booklet
Mrs. Joyce had given him.

I cant sleep, he murmured; Ill find that thing and read it.

His fingers sought the electric switch. The next moment the room was full
of light. He got out of bed, passed quickly through to his dressing-room,
found the coat that he had worn that morning, and secured the booklet.

He went back again to bed, and, lying on his elbow, opened the dainty
little printed thing and began to read thus:

                               LONG ODDS

You dont say so! Where on earth has she gone?

I cant say, sir, but its plain enough she _is_ missing. Hasnt been
seen since last night when she went up to her room.

I _was_ put out, I own; my man on waking me had informed me that the
cook was missing; she had gone to bed without anything being noticed
amiss, and was now nowhere to be found. She was always an odd woman, but
a capital cook. What had become of her? The very last sort of person to
disappear in this waya respectable elderly Scotchwomanreally quite a
treasure in the country; and the more I thought of it while I dressed,
the more puzzled I became. I hardly liked to send for the police; and
then again it was awkward, verypeople coming to dinner that day. It was
really too bad.

But I had scarcely finished dressing when in rushed my man again. I do so
dislike people being excited, and he was more than excited.

Please, sir, Mr. Vend has come round to see you; his coachman has
gonewent off in the night, and hasnt left a trace behind, and they say
the gardeners boy is with him.

Well, said I, it is extraordinary; tell Mr. Vend Im coming; stay,
Ill go at once.

It was really past beliefthe three of them! After an hours talk with
Vend, no explanation offered itself, so we decided to go to town as usual.

We walked down to the station, and saw at once something was wrong. Old
Weeks, the stationmaster, was quite upset: his pointsman was missing, and
the one porter had to take up his duty. However, the train coming up, we
had no time to question him, but jumped in. There were three other people
in the compartment, and really I thought I was going off my head when I
heard what they were discussing. Vend, too, didnt seem to know if he was
on his head or his heels. It was this that startled us so: What can have
become of them all?

I heard no more. I really believe I swooned, but at the next stationa
large onewe saw consternation on every face. I pinched myself to see if
I was dreaming. I tried to persuade myself I was. Vend looked ghastly. A
passenger got in; he did not look quite so dazed as some did, but savage
and cross. For a time none spoke; at last someone said aloudI dont
think he expected an answer

What on earths become of them? and the cross looking man, who got in
last, growled out,

Thats the worst of it; they are not _on earth_, they are gone. My boy
always said it would be so; from the very first moment I heard it, I knew
what had happened; often he has warned me. I still have his voice ringing
in my ears.

I tell you, in _that night_ there shall be two men in one bed: the one
shall be taken, and the other shall be left. (Luke xvii. 34.)

I know only too well _that night_ was _last_ night. Ive often prayed
for it without thinking, and so I daresay have you: Thy kingdom come.
It makes me so savage I dont know what to do.

Now, I was an atheist, and did not believe the Bible. For the last thirty
years (I am past fifty) I had stuck to my opinions, and when I heard men
talk religious trash I invariably objected.

But this seemed altogether different. I tell you, for a thousand pounds
I couldnt have said a word. I just hoped it would all turn out a dream,
but the further we went, the more certain it became that we were all
awake, and that by some unaccountable visitation of Providence a number
of people had suddenly disappeared in the night.

The whole of society was unhinged; everybody had to do somebodys elses
work. For instance, at the terminus, a porter had been put into Smiths
stall, as the usual man was missing. Cabs were not scarce, but some
of those who drove them seemed unlicensed and new to their work. The
shutters in some of the shops were up, and on getting to my bank I heard
the keys had only just been found.

Everyone was silent, and afraid lest some great misfortune was coming.
I noticed we all seemed to mistrust one another, and yet as each fresh
clerk, turned up late, entered the counting-room, a low whisper went
round. The chief cashier, as I expected, did not come. The newspapers no
one cared to look at; there seemed a tacit opinion that _they_ could tell
us nothing.

Business was at a standstill. I saw that very soon. I hoped as the day
wore on that it would revive, but it did not. The clerks went off without
asking my permission, and I was left alone. I felt I hated them. I did
not know what to do. I could not well leave, else they might say the bank
had stopped payment, and yet I felt I could not stay there. Business
seemed to have lost its interest, and money its value. I put up the
shutters myself, and at once noticed what a change had come over the City
while I had been at the bank. _Then_ all were trying to fill the void
places; _now_ it seemed as if the attempt had failed.

In the City some of the streets had that dismal Sunday appearance,
while a few houses had been broken into; but in the main thoroughfares
there was a dense mass of people, hurrying, it struck me, they knew not
where. Some seemed dazed, others almost mad with terror. At the stations
confusion reigned, and I heard there had been some terrible accidents. I
went into my club, but the waiters had gone off without leave, and one
had to help oneself.

As evening came on, I saw the lurid reflection of several fires, but,
horrible to say, no one seemed to mind, and I felt myself that if the
whole of London were burnt, and I with it, I should not care. For the
first time in my life I no longer feared Death: I rather looked on him as
a friend.

As the gas was not lit, and darkness came down upon us, one heard cries
and groans. I tried to light the gas, but it was not turned on. I
remembered there was a taper in the writing-room. I went and lit it, but
of course it did not last long. I groped my way into the dining-room,
and helped myself to some wine, but I could not find much, and what I
took seemed to have no effect; and when I heard voices, they fell on me
as if I were in a dream. They were talking of the Bible, though, and it
now seemed the one book worth thinking of, yet in our vast club library I
doubt if I should have found a single copy.

One said: What haunts me are the words Watch therefore. You cant
_watch_ now.

I thought of my dinner party. Little had I imagined a week ago, when I
issued the invitations, how I should be passing the hour.

Suddenly I remembered the secretary had been a religious fanatic, and
I made my way slowly to his room, knocking over a table, in my passage,
with glasses on it. It fell with a crash which sounded through the house,
but no one noticed it. By the aid of a match I saw candles on his writing
table and lit them. Yes! as I thought, there was his Bible. It was open
as if he had been reading it when called away, and another book I had
never seen before lay alongside of ita sort of index.

The Bible was open at Proverbs, and these verses, being marked, caught my
eye:

Because I have called and ye refused, I have stretched out My hand and
no man regarded; I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when
your fear cometh.

I had never thought before of God laughingof God mocking. I had fancied
man alone did that. Mans laughing had ended nowI saw that pretty plain.

I had a hazy recollection of a verse that spoke of men wanting the rocks
to fall on them; so looked it up in the index. Yes, there was the word
Rock, and some of the passages were marked with a pencil. One was Deut.
xxxii. 15: He forsook God which made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock
of our Salvation.

Perhaps he marked that passage after he had had a talk with me. How
well I remember the earnestness with which he pressed salvation upon
me that dayexplaining the simplicity of trusting Christ and His blood
for pardonand assuring me that if I only yielded myself to the Lord I
should understand the peace and joy he talked about. But it was no use. I
remember I only chaffed him, and said mockingly that his God was a myth,
and time would prove it, and he answered,

Never. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My Word shall not pass
away. He may come to-night.

I laughed and said, What odds will you take? I lay you long ones.

Another passage marked was 1 Samuel ii. 2, Neither is there any rock
like our God, and lower still Man who built his house upon a rock.

I had no need to look that out. I knew what it referred to, and then my
eye caught Matt. xxvii. 51, The earth did quake, and the rocks rent.
That was when Christ died to save sinners, died to save meand yet I had
striven against Him all my life. I could not bear to read more. I shut
the book and got up. There were some texts hanging over the fireplace:

Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted
out.Acts iii. 19.

The blood of Jesus Christ His son cleanseth us from all sin.1 John i.
7.

Now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.2 Cor.
vi. 2.

As I turned to leave the room these caught my eye, and I said, Well, I
have been a fool.

Tom Hammond looked up from the little booklet,a look of bewilderment was
in his eyes, a sense of blankness, almost of stupefaction, in his mind.
Like one who, half stunned, passes through some strange and wondrous
experience, and slowly recalls every item of that experience as fuller
consciousness returns, he went, mentally, slowly over the story of the
little book.

The verisimilitude of the whole story is little less than startling, he
murmured. His eyes dropped upon the book again, and he read the last line
aloud: Well, I have been a fool.

Slowly, meditatively, he added: And I, with every other otherwise sane
man who has been careless as to whether such things are to be, am as big
a fool as the man in that book!

He laid the dainty little messenger down on the table by his bedside. His
handling of the book was almost reverential. Reaching to the electric
lever, he switched off the light. He wanted to think, and he could think
best in the dark.

Of course, I know _historically_, he mused, all the events of the
Christs life, His death, His resurrection, andandWell, _there_,
I think, my knowledge ends. In a vague way I have always known that
the Bible said something of a great final denouement to all the World
Dramaan award time of some kind, a millennium of perfectperfectwell
perfect everything that is peaceful andOh, I dont know much about
it, after all. I am very much in a fog, I see, for Mrs. Joyce and that
booklet both speak of a return of Christ into the air, whither certain
dead and certain living are to be caught up to be with Him and to begin
an eternity of bliss.

For a moment or two he tried to disentangle his many thoughts; then, with
a weary little sigh, he gave up the task, murmuring: _I_ certainly am
not ready for any such event. If there is to be a hideous leaving behind
of the _un_ready, then I should be left to all that unknown hideousness.

A myriad thoughts crowded upon his brain. He gave up, at length, the
perplexing attempt to think out the problem, telling himself that with
the coming of the new day he would begin a definite search for the real
facts of this great mysterythe second coming of Christ.

By an exercise of his will he finally settled himself to sleep.




CHAPTER XII.

THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH.


Will you come into my workroom, Mr. Hammond? It is a kind of sanctum to
me as well as a workroom, and I always feel that I can talk freer there
than anywhere else.

It was the Jew, Abraham Cohen, who said these words. His visitor was Tom
Hammond. It was the morning after that Tom Hammond had been troubled
about Long Odds and its mysterious subject.

Jew and Gentile had had a few moments general talk in the sitting-room
downstairs, but Cohen wanted to see his visitor aloneto be where nothing
should interrupt their conversation.

Tom Hammonds first vision of Cohens workroom amazed him. As we have
seen before, the apartment was a large one, and, besides being a
workroom, partook of the character of a study, den, sanctumanything of
that order that best pleases the reader.

But it was the finished work which chiefly arrested the attention of
Tom Hammond, and in wondering tones he cried: It is all so exquisitely
wrought and fashioned! But _what_ can it be for?

Cohen searched his visitors face with his deep grave eyes.

Will you give me your word, Mr. Hammond, he asked, that you will hold
in strictest confidence the fact that this work is here in this place, if
I tell you what it is for?

I do give you my word of honour, Mr. Cohen. As he spoke, Tom Hammond
held forth his hand. The Jew grasped the hand, there was an exchange of
grips; then, as their clasp parted, the Jew said:

I do not wish to bind you to any secrecy as to the fact that such work
as this is being performed in England, but only that you should preserve
the secret of the whereabouts of the work and workers. With a sudden
glow of prideit flashed in his eyes, it rang in his toneshe cried,
This work is for the New Temple!

The New Temple? I dont think I quite understand you, Mr. Cohen. Where
is this temple being built? There was amaze in Tom Hammonds voice.

It is not yet begun, replied the Jew. That is, the actual rearing has
not yet begun, though the preparations are well forward. The New Temple
is to be at Jerusalem, Mr. Hammond.

The ring of pride deepened in his voice as he went on: There can be no
other site for the Temple of Jehovah save Zion, the city of our God,
beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earththe centre of the
world, Mr. Hammond.

As he talked, Tom Hammond, watching him intently, saw how the soul of the
man and the hope of the true Israelite shone out of his eyes.

Crossing the room to where a chart of the world (on Mercators
Projection) hung on the wall, the Jew took an inch-marked straight-edge,
and laying one end of it on Barrow Point, Alaska, he marked the spot
on the straight-edge where it touched Jerusalem. From Jerusalem to
Wrangel Land, Siberia, farthest east, he showed by his straight-edge
that practically he got the same measurement as when from the west. From
Jerusalem to North Cape, Scandinavia, and from Jerusalem to the Cape of
Good Hope, he showed again was each practically the same distance.

Always, always, is Zion the centre of the inhabited earth! he cried in
quiet, excited tones. Moving quickly back to Hammonds side, he said:
Did you ever think of this, sir, that, practically speaking, all the
nations west of Jerusalem (those of Europe) write from west to eastthat
is, towards the city of our God; whilst all the Asiatic races (those
east of Zion) write from east to westjust the opposite,but always
_towards_ Zion? No, no, sir; there can be no other place on earth for the
New Temple of Jehovah save Jerusalem. Read Ezekiel, from the fortieth
chapter, sir, and you will see how glorious a Temple Jehovah is to have
soon. Show the house to the people of Israel, God said in vision to His
prophet, and let them build it after the sum, the pattern which I show
you. And that, sir, is what we are doing.

Who are the _we_ who are doing this? Tom Hammonds face was as full of
wonder as his voice. Who, he continued, makes the plans, gives the
orders, finds the funds?

Wealthy, patriotic men of our people, sir. We as a race are learning
that soon the Messiah will come, and we are proving our belief by
preparing for the House of our God. Italian Jews all over Italy are
carving the richest marbles; wrought iron, wondrous works in metal, gold
and silver ornaments, cornices, chapiters, bells for the high priests
robes, and a myriad other things are being prepared; so that the moment
the last restriction on our landthe land of our fathers, the land which
Jehovah gave unto our forefather Abraham, saying, Your seed shall
possess itis removed, we shall begin to ship the several prepared
parts of the Temple to Palestine, as the Gentiles term our land.

A curious little smile flittered over his face as he added,

The very march of modern times in the East, Mr. Hammond, is all helping
to make the consummation of our work more easy. The new railways laid
from the coast to Jerusalem are surely part of the providence of our God.
When Messiah comes, sir, we shall be waiting ready for Him, I trust.

But do you not know, Tom Hammond interrupted, that according to
every record of history as well as the New Testament, all Christendom
has believed, for all the ages since, that the Messiah came nearly two
thousand years ago?

The _Nazarene_?

There was as much or more of pity than scorn in the voice of the Jew as
he uttered the word.

How could _He_ be the Messiah, sir? he went on. Could any good thing
come out of Nazareth? Besides, _our Messiah_ is to redeem Israel, to
deliver them from the hand of the oppressor, and to gather again into one
nation all our scattered race. No, no! a thousand times No! The Nazarene
could not be _our_ Messiah!

Turning quickly to Hammond, he asked, Are _you_ a Christian, sir?

For a moment Tom Hammond was startled by the suddenness, the
definiteness, of the question. He found no immediate word of reply.

You are a _Gentile_, of course, Mr. Hammond, the Jew went on; but are
you a Christian? For it is a curious fact that I find very few Gentiles
whom I have met, even _professed_ Christians, and fewer still who ever
pretend to live up to their profession.

Tom Hammond recovered himself sufficiently to say:

Yes, I am a Gentile, of course, and I _suppose_ I amer

It struck him, as he floundered in the second half of his reply, as being
very extraordinary that he should find it difficult to state why he
supposed he was a Christian. While he hesitated the Jew went on:

Why should you say you _suppose_, sir? Is there nothing distinctive
enough about the possession of Christianity to give assurance of it to
its possessor? I do not _suppose_ I am a _Jew_, sir (by religion I mean,
and not merely by race.) No, sir, I do not suppose, for I _know_ it.
There is all the difference in the world, it seems to me, sir, between
the mere theology and the religion of the faith we profess. The religion
is life, it seems to me, sir; theology is only the science of that life.

Both men were so utterly absorbed in their talk that they did not hear
a touch on the handle of the door. It was only as it opened that they
turned round. Zillah stood framed in the doorway. Cohen, who saw her
every day, realized that she had never looked so radiantly beautiful
before. She had almost burst into the room, but paused as she saw that a
stranger was present.

Excuse me, she began; I had no idea you had a friend with you,
Abraham.

She would have retreated, but he stopped her with an eager

Come in, Zillah.

She advanced, gazing in curious inquiry at Hammond.

This is Mr. Tom Hammond, editor of the Courier, Zillah, Cohen
explained to the young girl. To Hammond he added, My wifes sister,
Zillah Robart.

The introduced pair shook hands. The young Jew went on to explain to
Zillah how the great editor came to be visiting him.

Tom Hammonds eyes were fixed upon the vision of loveliness that the
Jewess made. She was going to assist at the wedding of a girl-friend, and
had come to show herself to her brother-in-law before starting. Lovely at
the most ordinary times, she looked perfectly radiant in her well-chosen
wedding finery.

Tom Hammond had seen female loveliness in many landsEast, North, West,
South. He had gazed upon women who seemed too lovely for earthwomen
whose flesh was alabaster, whose glance would woo emperors; women whose
skins glowed with the olive of southern lands, the glance of whose black,
lustrous eyes intoxicated the beholder in the first instant: Inez of
Spain, Mousmee of Japan, Katrina of Russia, Carlotta of Naples, Rosie
of Paris, Maggie of the Scottish Highlands, Patty of Wales, Kate of
Ireland, and a score of other typical beauties. But this Jewish maiden,
this Zillah of Finsburyshe was beyond all his thought or knowledge of
feminine loveliness.

While Cohen talked on for a moment or two, and Zillahs eyes were fixed
upon her brother-in-law, Tom Hammonds gaze was riveted upon the lovely
girl.

Every feature of her beautiful face became photographed on his brain. Had
he been a clever artist, he could have gone to his studio and have flung
with burning, brilliant haste her face upon his canvas.

He thought of Zenobia as he looked upon her brow. He wondered if ever two
such wide, black, lustrous eyes had ever shone in the face of a woman
before, or whether a female soul had ever before been mirrored in such
eyes.

Her mouth was not the large, wide feature so often seen in women of
her race, but of exquisite lines, with ripe, full lips, as brilliant
in colour as the most glowing coral. Her eyes were fringed with the
blackest, finest, silkiest lashes. Her hair was raven in hue and wondrous
in its wealth.

He realized, in that first moment of full gazing upon her, how faded
every other female face must ever seem beside her glorious beauty. With a
strange freak of mental conjuring, Madge Finisterre and that interrupted
tete-a-tete rose up before him, and a sudden sense of relief swept over
him that George Carlyon had returned at the moment that he did.

It is all so strange, so wonderful to me, what I have seen and heard
here, he jerked out as Cohen finished his explanation.

Hammond spoke to the beautiful girl, whose great lustrous eyes had
suddenly come back to his face.

For a moment or two longer he voiced his admiration of the separate
pieces of finished work, and spoke of his own growing interest in the
Jewish race.

The great black eyes that gazed upwards into his, grew liquid with the
evident emotion that filled the soul of the beautiful girl. With the
frank, hearty, simple gesture of the perfectly unconventional woman, she
held forth her hand to Hammond as she said:

It is so good of you, sir, to speak thus of my brother-in-laws work
and of our race. There are few who speak kindly of us. Even though, as a
nation, you English give our poor persecuted people sanctuary, yet there
are few who care for us or speak kindly of us, and fewer still who speak
kindly to us.

Tom Hammond held the pretty, plump little hand that she offered him
clasped warmly in his, almost forgetting himself as he gazed down into
her expressive face and listened to her rich musical voice. There was an
ardency in his gaze that was unknown, unrealized, by himself.

The olive of the girls cheeks warmed under the power of his gaze. He
saw the warm colour rise, and remembered himself, shifted his eyes, and
released her hand.

I must not stay another moment, Abraham, she cried, turning to the Jew.
Adah would be vexed if I were late.

She turned back to Hammond, but before she could speak he was saying,

Good-bye, Miss Robart; I hope we may meet again. What your brother has
already told me only incites me to come again and see him, for there are
many things I want to know.

He shook hands with the girl again. His eyes met hers, and again he saw
the olive cheeks suddenly warm.

Ten minutes later he was driving back to his office, his mind in a
strange whirl, the beautiful face of Zillah Robart filling all his vision.

He pulled himself up at last, and laughed low and amusedly as he murmured,

And I am the man whose pulses had never been quickened by the sight or
the touch of a woman until I met her

The memory of Madge Finisterre flashed into his mind. He smiled to
himself as he mused:

Even when I seemed most smitten by Madge, by her piquant Americanism,
I told myself I was not sure that love had anything to do with my
feelings. Now I know it had not.

His eyes filled suddenly with a kind of staring wonder as he cried out,
in a low, startled undertone:

Am I inferring to myself that this sudden admiration for Zillah Robart
has any element of love in it?

He smiled at his own unuttered answer. The cab pulled up at the door of
the office at that moment. He came back sharply to everyday things.




CHAPTER XIII.

A DEMON.


Madge Finisterre awoke early on the morning after that discussion with
herself anent Hammonds possible proposal.

With startling suddenness, as she lay still a moment, a vision of the
pastor of Balhang came up before her mind. Then a strange thing happened
to her, for a yearning sense of home-sickness suddenly filled her.

She tried to laugh at herself for her childishness, as she called it,
and sprang from her bed to prepare for her bath. Standing for one instant
by the bedside, she murmured:

But, after all, it is time I was paddling across again. Who ever heard
of anyone from our side staying here through the winter? I must think
this all out seriously. Anyway, Ill get my bath, and dress, and go for a
stroll before breakfast. They say that one ought to see suburban London
pouring over the bridges into London city in the early morning. Ill go
this morning.

Half-an-hour later she was dressed ready for her expedition. As she
passed the office on her way out, they were sorting the morning mail. She
waited for her letters. There was only one, but it was from home.

Racing back to her room, she tore it open with an eagerness born,
unconsciously to herself, of the nostalgia that had seized upon her
three-quarters of an hour before.

There were two large, closely-written sheets in the letterone from her
father and one from her mother. Each told their own news.

She read her fathers first; every item interested her, though as she
read she seemed to feel that there was all through it an underlying
strain of longing for her return.

Dear old poppa! she murmured as she neared the finish of the epistle.

Suddenly her eyes took in the two lines of postscript jammed close into
the bottom edge of the first sheet. Her heart seemed to stand still as
she read:

Pastor is considered sick. Doctor cant make his case out.

Pastor sick! She gasped the words aloud; then, turning swiftly to her
mothers letter, she cried: Momma will tell more than this!

Her eyes raced over the written lines. Her mother said a little more than
her father had done about the sickness of their friend and pastor; not
much, though, in actual words, but to the disturbed heart of the young
girl there seemed to her much deeper meaning.

An excited trembling came upon her for a few moments. The next instant
she had put a strong curb upon herself, and, folding the letters, and
replacing them in the envelope, she cried out quietly, but sharply:

The boat from Southampton sails at two to-day. Ill catch that!

The next instant she was divesting herself of her hat and jacket, and
began to set about her packing.

Now and again she talked to herself thus: Sick, is he? Poor old pastor!
I guess I know whats the matter with him, and Ill put him right in five
minutes.

She smiled as she went on: I guess, too, Ive found out whats the
matter with meI want to be a pastors wife!

The next instant her voice was carolling out:

    For I tell them they need not come wooing of me,
    For my heart, my heart, is over the sea.

Her fingers were busy, her mind all the time kept mentally arranging a
host of things.

I wonder, she murmured presently, how Uncle Archibald and George will
take my sudden departure? Well, Im glad George is out of town. Hes been
showing signs of spoons lately with me, so its best, perhaps, that I
should get off without seeing him.

       *       *       *       *       *

By eleven that forenoon she had left Waterloo. Her uncle had seen her
off from the station. He wanted to accompany her to Southampton, but she
would not hear of it.

I want to be very quiet all the way down, she said, and write some
important letters. Make my excuses to everybody, and explain that I only
had an hour or two to do everything.

At the last moment her uncle slipped an envelope into her hand, saying,
You are not to open it until you have been travelling a quarter of an
hour.

Then came the good-byes, andoff.

She had been travelling _nearly_ a quarter of an hour when she opened the
envelope. There was a brief, hearty, loving note inside, in her uncles
hand-writing, expressing the joy her visit had given him, and his sense
of loneliness at her going, and saying:

    Please, dear Madge, accept the enclosure in second envelope,
    as a souvenir of your visit, from your affectionate

                                                          NUNKUMS.

She opened the smaller envelope. To her breathless amazement, she found a
Bank of England note for 1,000. When she recovered herself a little, a
smile filled her eyes as she murmured:

Fancy an American Methodist pastors wife with a thousand pounds of her
own! My!

The train was rushing on; she remembered that she had a special letter to
write. She opened her bag and took out writing materials. The carriage
rocked tremendously, but she managed to pen her letter. Before she
finally enclosed the letter in an envelope, she took from her purse a
two-inch cutting from the columns of some newspaper or magazine. This she
placed in the letter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tom Hammond had just settled himself down to work when a letter, bearing
the Southampton post-mark, was delivered to him. Opening it, and
reading My dear Mr. Hammond, he turned next to the signature. Madge
Finisterre? he cried softly, surprisedly, under his breath. Wonderingly
he turned back to the first page, and read:

You will be surprised to know that when you receive this I shall be
steaming down Channel _en route_ for New York. I got letters from home
this morning that made it imperative that I should start at once.

I cannot leave without thanking you for all your kindness to me. It has
been a pleasure to have known you, and I sincerely hope that we may meet
again some day.

Now I am going to take you right into my confidence, Mr. Hammond, for
who so discreet as a prophet?vide The Courier.

Yesterday evening, after dinner, I had a long talk alone with myself.
I had had a very pleasant tete-a-tete tea with a friendperhaps you may
remember this,and while I went over in mind many things in connection
with that tete-a-tete, especially the events immediately preceding the
interruption, I suddenly realized a sense of longing for home.

A night or two before I sailed from America, our pastor asked me to be
his wife. He was awfully in earnest, poor fellow; and I could see how
love for megay, frivolous little mewas consuming him. I was startled
at the proposition, and told him frankly that I did not know my own
mind, but that if ever I found out that I loved him, I would come right
away and tell him so. I found out this morning, when I heard that he was
dangerously sick, that I wanted him as much as ever he wanted me. At this
stage of the letter, please read the cutting enclosed.

Wondering what the clipping could have to do with the subject, Tom
Hammond laid down the letter and read the cutting:

A king had a son born to him in his old age, and was warned by his
astrologers and physicians, that his son would be blind if he ever saw
the light before he was twelve years old. Accordingly the king built
for him a subterranean chamber, where he was kept till he was past the
fatal age. Thereupon he was taken out from his retreat, and shown all
the beauties of the world, gold and jewels and arms, and carriages and
horses, and beautiful dresses. But seeing some women pass, he asked what
they might be, and was told, Demons, who lead men astray. Afterwards
the king asked him which of all the beautiful things he had seen he
desired most, and the prince answered, The demons which lead men astray.

I am going back to be demon to my pastor, the letter went on, to lead
himnot astray, I trust, but back to health. Please keep all this in
absolute confidence, for I have not given even a hint of it to my uncle.
Whenever you visit the States, be sure to come and visit me, for no one
will be more welcome from the Old Country than yourself.

By-the-bye, dear friend, apropos of your remark anent the presence of
a woman to make tea for you, keep the subject well before yourself, and
when you see the lady who can really satisfy all your ideals, propose
quickly, secure her, andhappy thoughtdo America by way of a honey-moon,
and come and see me.

                          Yours most sincerely,

                                                       MADGE FINISTERRE.

He smiled as he laid down the letter. For a moment all the bright,
piquant personality of the writer filled his vision. Then, with a
swiftness and completeness that was almost startling, her face vanished
from his mental picturing, and Zillah Robart, in all her radiant
loveliness, took the place in his thought and vision.

For a brief while he was absorbed in his new vision. The sudden entrance
of Ralph Bastin dispelled his dreaming.

After a few moments talk, Bastin cried, quite excitedly, I say, Tom,
those pars of yours about the Jews are the talk of all Londonour London,
I mean, of course.

Without breaking the confidence reposed in him by Cohen, Tom Hammond told
his friend what he had recently discovered as to the Jewish work on the
materials for the New Temple.

Thats strange, Tom, returned Bastin. I dropped in now as much as
anything to tell you that last night I met Dolly Anstrutheryou remember
her, dont you?the little Yorkshire girl that was learning sculpture
when we were staying at Paris with Montmarte.

She has just come back from Italy, where she has been three years. She
told me how startled she was to hear from several sources about this New
Temple business. She said she visited a very large studio in Milan, and
saw the most magnificent pillar she had ever seen. She asked the great
artist what it was for, and he said, It is a pillar for the New Temple
at Jerusalem.

In Rome she visited another great studio, and there she saw a duplicate
of the Milan pillar, and was told again, Oh, that is a pillar for the
future Temple at Jerusalem.

In another place, where the most wonderful brass-work in the world is
turned out, she saw two magnificent gates; and, on inquiring where they
were destined to be hung, received the same reply, In the future Temple
at Jerusalem. What does it all mean, Tom? he added.

That is what I want to find out, to be perfectly sure of, Ralph. My
intelligent Jew, of whom I told you, declares that the Messiah is coming.
We, as Christiansnominal Christians, I mean, of course,same as you and
I, Ralph, dont profess anything more

Bastin searched his friends face with a sudden keenness, but did not
interrupt him by asking him what he meant.

As nominal Christians, Tom Hammond went on, we believe the Christ
has already come. But the question has been aroused in my mind of late
(suggested by certain things that I have not time to go into now), does
the Bible teach that Christ is coming again, and are all these strange
movings among the Jews and in the politics of the world so many signs
and

There came an interruption at that moment. The tape was telling of the
assassination of a Continental crowned head. Both men became journalists,
pure and simple, in an instant.




CHAPTER XIV.

MAJOR H ON THE COMING!


Tom Hammond was riding westwards in the Tube. It was the morning after
the events narrated in the last chapter. He had just bought from a
book-stall a volume of extracts from essays on art in all its branches.
He sat back in the comfortable seat of the car dipping into the book.
Suddenly an extract arrested his attention.

It was evidently a description of the Crucifixion, butmost
tantalizingthe head of this page was torn, he could find out nothing
about the authorship. But the extract interested him:

Darknesssooty, portentous darknessshrouds the whole scene; only
above the accursed wood, as if through a horrid rift in the murky
ceiling, a rainy delugesleety-flaw, discoloured waterstreams down
amain, spreading a grisly, spectral light, even more horrible than that
palpable night. Already the Earth pants thick and fast! The darkened
Cross trembles! The winds are droptthe air is stagnanta muttering
rumble growls underneath their feet, and some of the miserable crowd
begin to fly down the hill. The horses sniff the coming terror, and
become unmanageable through fear. The moment rapidly approaches, when,
nearly torn asunder by His own weight, fainting with loss of blood,
which now runs in narrower rivulets from His slit veins, His temples and
breast drowned in sweat, and His black tongue parched with the fiery
death-fever, Jesus cried, I thirst. The deadly vinegar is elevated to
Him.

His head sinks, and the sacred corpse swings senseless on the cross. A
sheet of vermilion flame shoots sheer through the air and vanishes; the
rocks of Carmel and Lebanon cleave asunder; the sea rolls on high from
the sands its black, weltering waves. Earth yawns, and the graves give up
their dwellers. The dead and the living are mingled together in unnatural
conjunction, and hurry through the Holy City.

New prodigies await them there. The veil of the Templethe unpierceable
veilis rent asunder from top to bottom, and that dreaded recess,
containing the Hebrew mysteriesthe fatal ark, with the tables and
seven-branched candelabrumis disclosed by the light of unearthly flames
to the God-deserted multitude.

Strange! he mused, as his eyes stared into space, his mind occupied
with the thought of the extract. Strange how everything of late seems to
be compelling my attention to the ChristChrist past, Christ future.

At that instant he heard someone mention the name of his paper. He
glanced in the direction of the voices. Two gentlemen were talking
together. It was evident that his own identity was utterly unknown to
them.

Youre right, youre right, the second man was saying. A very clever
fellow, evidently, that editor of the _Courier_.

You have noticed, of course, the first man went on, those striking
paragraphs, of late, about the Jews. Though, to a keen student of the
subject, they show a very superficial knowledge; still, it is refreshing
to find a modern newspaper editor writing like that at all.

Yes, the other said, but it is strange how few people, even Christian
people, ever realize how intimately the future of the Jewish race is
bound up with that other shamefully neglected truththe coming of the
Lord for His Church. I wish the editor of the _Courier_, and every other
newspaper editor, could be induced to go this afternoon and hear Major
H speak on these things at the  Room.

British Museum! called the conductor of the car. The two talkers
got out. Tom Hammond also alighted. As he mounted in the lift to the
street, he decided that he would hear this major on the subject that was
occupying his own perplexed thought so much.

Three oclock that afternoon found him one of a congregation of three
to four hundred persons in the  Room. He was amazed at the quality of
the audience. He recognized quite a dozen well-known London clergymen
and ministers, with a score of other equally well-known laymenliterary
men, merchants, etc. All were of a superior class. There was a large
sprinkling of ladies, who, in many cases, were evidently sisters.
Unaccustomed to such meetings, Tom Hammond did not know how enormous is
the number of Christian women who are to be found at special religious
gatherings, conventions, etc.

There was a subdued hum of whispering voices in the place. The hum
suddenly ceased. Tom Hammond glanced quickly towards the platform.
Half-a-dozen gentlemen and one or two ladies were taking their seats
there. They bowed their heads in silent prayer.

A minute later a tall, fine looking man, the centre one of the platform
group, rose to his feet and advanced to the rail. He held a hymn-book in
his hand. His keen eyes swept the faces of the gathered people. Then
in a clear, ringing voice like the voice of a military officer on the
battle-field, he cried:

Number three-twenty-four. Let every voice ring out in song.

Tom Hammond opened the linen-covered book that had been handed to him as
he entered, and was almost startled to note the likeness of the sentiment
of the hymn to the poem of B. M., which had struck him so forcibly that
night in his office.

The major gave out the first verse:

    It may be at morn, when the day is awaking,
    When sunlight thro darkness and shadow is breaking,
    That Jesus will come in the fulness of glory,
        To take out of the world His own.

The major paused a moment to interpolate, Let the gladness of the
thought ring out in your voices as you sing, but especially in the
chorus.

        O Lord Jesus, how long?
    How long ere we shout the glad song
        Christ returneth! Hallelujah!
        Hallelujah! Amen!

The singing of that hymn was a revelation to Tom Hammond. He had heard
hearty, ringing, triumphant song at Handel festivals, etc., but among the
rank and file, so to speak, of Christians he had never heard anything
like the singing of that verse and chorus.

A hundred thoughts and conflicting emotions filled him as he realized, as
the hymn went on, that these people were really inspired by the glorious
hope of the return of the Christ. Once he shuddered as the thought
presented itself to his mind,

How should _I_ fare if this Christ came suddenlycame now?

Twice over the last verse was sung, the quiet rapture of the singers
being doubly accentuated as the glorious words rang out:

    Oh, joy! oh, delight! should we go without dying!
    No sickness, no sadness, no dread, and no crying;
    Caught up through the clouds with our Lord into glory,
        When Jesus receives His own.

With the last-sung note the voice of the Major rang out again:

General Sir R. P. will lead us in prayer.

The hush that followed was of the tensest. It lasted a full half-minute,
then the old generals voice led in a prayer such as Tom Hammond had
never even conceived possible to human lips, and such as, certainly, he
had never heard before. It awed him, and at the same time revealed to him
that real Christianity was something which he, with all his knowledge of
men and things, had never before come in contact with.

The prayer concluded, not a moment was wasted. In his clear, ringing
tones, the major began:

Turn with me, if you will, dear friends, to the first chapter of the
Acts of the Apostles, and the eleventh verse.

Tom Hammond wished that he had a Bible with him. It seemed to him that
he was the only person there without one. In an instant every Bible was
opened at the passage named. There was no searching, no fumbling. This
was another revelation to him.

They know their Bibles, he mused, better than I do my dictionary or
encyclopdia.

But his attention was suddenly riveted on the major, who, pocket Bible in
hand, was saying;

Suffer me, friends, to change one word in my reading, that the truth may
come home clearer to our hearts. Ye men of London, ... This same Jesus
which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye
have seen Him go into heaven.

He paused for one instant, then went on: The second coming of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ is, I believe, the central truth of real, true
Christianity at this moment, and it should be carefully, diligently
studied by every converted soul. It should be comprehended as far as
Scripture reveals it, and so apprehended that we should live in daily,
hourly expectancy of that return. Moody, the great evangelist, to
whom the whole subject (as he tells us) was once most objectionable,
upon studying the Word of God for himself, in this connection, was so
profoundly impressed with the insistence with which the return of the
Lord was emphasized, that he was compelled to believe in it, and to
preach it, saying, It is almost the most precious truth of all the
Bible. Why, one verse in thirteen throughout the New Testament is said to
allude to this wondrous subject in some form or another.

Many of you who are present this afternoon are not only conversant
with this glorious matter, but are living in the glad expectancy of the
return of your Lord. But there are sure to be some here to-day to whom
the whole subject is foreign, and to youeven if there be only one suchI
shall speak as plainly, frankly, simply, yearningly, as though we were
tete-a-tete.




CHAPTER XV.

THE ADDRESS.


Now to begin. Even in the Church of God there are whole multitudes to
whom the very title of this afternoons address is but jargon. They will
not search the Word for it, they will barely tolerate its mention. Why?
Oh, say some, hidden things are not to be searched into. Others there
are who spiritualize every reference to the Lords second coming, and
say, Yes, of course, He has come again, He has come into my heart, or
how else could I have become a child of God.

To these last, these dreamers, we would respectfully say, A coming into
the air for His people, to take them up, is a totally different thing
to coming into the heart to indwell as Saviour and Keeper while we are
travelling lifes pathway.

There is another section of the Christian Church who say, We do not
want to hear anything about it. Our minister dont hold with it; it
is not a doctrine of our church. Now, such an argument as this is
blasphemous, since, if God has put it into His Word, it is blasphemy to
ignore it, to refuse to believe it.

Two distinct advents are plainly taught in Scripture. The first,
of Jesus birth as a Babe in Bethlehem, the second as Son of
Manglorified, who shall come in the clouds. Now, every Christian will
admit, nay, more, the very worldling admits the fact that every Scripture
relating to the first advent, as to time, place, circumstances, was
literally fulfilled, even to the minutest detail. Then, in the name of
common-sense, with the same covenant Scriptures in our hands, why should
we not expect to see the predictions relating to the second advent also
fulfilled to the very letter?

We have our Lords own definite promise in John fourteen: If I go, I
will come again and receive you unto Myself. We are all agreed that He
went. Well, in the same breath He said, I will come again. Can any
English be plainerAnd receive you unto Myself? That promise cannot
allude to conversion, and it certainly cannot allude to death, for death
is a going to Himif we are saved.

This expectancy of Christs return for His people was the only hope of
the early Church; and over and over again, in a variety of ways in the
epistles it is shown to be the only hope of the Church, until that Church
is taken out of the world, as a bride is taken by the bridegroom from her
old home, to dwell henceforth in his. There never has been any comfort
to bereaved ones in the thought of death, nor to any one of us who are
living is there any comfort in the contemplation of death, save and
except, of course, the thought of relief from weariness and suffering,
and in being translated to a painless sphere, to be with Christ. But in
the contemplation of the coming of Christ, when the dead in Christ shall
rise, and those who are in Christ, who are still living when He comes,
there is the certainty of the gladdest meeting when all are caught up
together in the air, to be for ever with the Lord. No waiting until the
end of the world but, if He came this afternoonand this may happenyou
who have loved ones with Christ would that very instant meet them in the
air, with your Lord.

Tom Hammond listened intently to every word of the majors, and, as
Scripture after Scripture was referred to, he saw how the speakers
statements were all verified by the Word of God.

There are two points I would emphasize here, the major went on. First,
that we must not confuse the second coming of the Lordthe coming in the
airfor His saints, with that later coming, probably seven years after,
when He shall come with His saints to reign.

And, secondly, to those to whom this whole subject may be new, I would
say, you must not confuse the second coming of our Lord with the end of
the world. The uninstructed, inexperienced child of God feels a quaking
of heart at all talk of such a coming.

Such people shrink from the suddenness of it. They say that there is no
preparatory sign to warn us of that coming. But that is not true.

The Word of God gives many instructions as to the signs of Christs near
return, and the hour we live in shows us these signs on every hand, so
that it is only those who are ignorant of the Word of God, or those who
are carelessly or wilfully blind to the signs around (and this applies,
we grieve to say, as much to ministers as to people,) who fail to see how
near must be the moment of our Lords return.

The first sign of this return is an awakening of national life among the
Jews, that shall immediately precede their returnin unbeliefto their
own land. Please turn with me to Matthew twenty-four.

There was again that soft rustle of turning leaves that had struck Tom
Hammond as so remarkable. Someone behind him, at the same instant,
passed a Bible, open at the reference, to him over his shoulder. With a
grateful glance and a murmured word of thanks, he accepted the loan of
the book.

I will read a verse or two here and there, the major announced. You
who know your Bibles, friends, will readily recall the subject-matter of
the previous chapter, and how our Lord after His terrible prediction upon
Jerusalem, added, Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. For I
say unto you, Ye shall not see Me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed
is He that cometh in the name of the Lord.

This is Jewish, of course, but the whole matter of the future of the
Jews and of the return of the Lord for His Church, and, later on, with
His Church, are bound up together. Presently, after uttering His last
prediction, the disciples came to Him privately, saying,

Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of Thy
coming, and of the end of the world?

Keep your Bibles open where you now have them, friends, and note
thisthat the two-fold answer of our Lords is in the reverse order to
the disciples question. In verses four and five He points out what
should not be the sign of His coming. While, in verse six, He shows what
should not be the sign of the end of the world. With these distinctions I
shall have more to say another day.

This afternoon I want to keep close to the signs of the coming of the
Lord. Read then the thirty-second and third verses: Now learn a parable
of the fig-tree: when its branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves,
ye know that summer is nigh: so likewise ye, when ye shall see all these
things, know thatlook in the margins of your Bible, please, and note
that the it of the text becomes He, which is certainly the only wise
translationwhen ye shall see all these things, know that He is near,
even at your doors.

Now, I hardly need remind the bulk of you, friends, gathered here this
afternoon, that the fig-tree, in the Gospels, represents Israel. The
Bible uses three trees to represent Israel at different periods of her
history, and in different aspects of her responsibility.

The Old Testament uses the vine as the symbol of Israel, the Gospels the
fig, and the Epistles the olive. At your leisure, friends, if you have
never studied this, do so. You will not be puzzled much over the blasting
of the barren fig-tree when you have made a study of the whole of this
subject, because you will see that it was parabolic of Gods judgment on
the unfruitful Jewish race.

Now, with this key of interpretation before us, how pointed becomes this
first sign of the return of our Lord. When, He says, the fig-tree
putteth forth her leaveswhen the Jewish nation shows signs of a revival
of national life and vitality,then know that the coming of the Lord
draweth nigh.

The careful reader of the daily press, even though not a Christian,
ought to have long ago been awakened to the startling fact that, after
thousands of years, the national life of Israel is awakening. The Jew is
returning to his own landPalestine.

Only a year or two ago the world was electrified by hearing of the
formation of that wonderful Zionist movement. How it has spread and
grown! And how, ever since, the increasing thousands have been flocking
back to Palestine! There are now nearly three times the number of Jews
in and around Jerusalem, that there were after the return from the
Babylonish captivity. Agricultural settlements are extending all over the
land. Vineyards and olive-grounds are springing up everywhere.

Now note a remarkable fulfillment of prophecy. Turn to Isaiah xvii. 10,
11: Therefore shalt thou plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with
strange slips. In the day thou shalt make thy plant to grow, and in the
morning shalt thou make thy seed to flourish; but the harvest shall be a
heap in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow.

In the early months of eighteen-ninety-four the Jews ordered two
million vine-slips from America, which they planted in Palestine. There
is the fulfillment of the first part of that prophecy, and if we are
justified in believing, as we think we are, that the return of the Lord
is imminent, then, as the tribulation will doubtless immediately follow
that return, and of the taking out of the Church from the world, then the
great gathering in of the harvest of those vines will be in the day of
grief and of desperate sorrow.

Now, let me read to you, friends, an extract from the testimony of an
expert, long resident in Palestine:

There is not the shadow of a doubt, he writes, as to the entire
changing of the climate of the land here (Palestine). The former and
latter rains are becoming the regular order of the seasons, and this is
doubtless due (physically, I mean) to the fact that the new colonists are
planting trees everywhere where they settle. The land, for thousands of
years, has been denuded of trees, so that there was nothing to attract
the clouds, etc.

Comparing the rainfall for the last five years, I find that there
has been about as much rain in April as in March; whereas, comparing
five earlier years, from 1880-85, I find that the rainfall in April was
considerably less than in March, and if we go back farther still, we find
that rain in April was almost unknown.

Thus God is preparing the land for the people. The people, too, are
being prepared for the land. The day is fast approaching when the Lord
will arise and have mercy upon Zion.

I need hardly, I think, tell you what even the secular press has
been giving some most striking articles about quite recently,namely,
the quiet preparation on the part of the Jews of everything for the
rebuilding of the temple at Jerusalem.

I see, by the lighting up of your faces, that you are familiar with the
fact that gates, pillars, marbles, ornaments, and all else requisite
for the immediate building of the new temple are practically complete,
and only await the evacuation of the hideous Mohamedan, with all his
abominations, from Jerusalem, to be hurried to the site of the old
temple, and to be reared, a new temple to Jehovah, by the Jew. Any day,
Turkeythe sick man of the Eastin desperate straits for money, may
sell Palestine to the Jews.

The Jews are to return to their land in unbelief of Christ being the
Messiah. They will build their temple, reorganize the old elaborate
services, the lamb will be slain again between the two evenings,
andbut all else of this time belongs to another address. What we have to
see this afternoon is that the fig-treethe Jewish nationis budding, and
to hear Jesus Christ saying to us, When ye see all these things, know
that He is near, even at the doors.

Another sign of the return of our Lord is to be the world-wide
preaching of the Gospel. Now, in this connection, let me give a word of
correction of a common error on this point.

The Bible nowhere gives a hint that the world is to be converted before
the return of the Lord for His Church. As a matter of fact, the worldthe
timesare to grow worse and worse; more polished, more cultured,
cleverer, better educated, yet grosser in soul, falser in worship. The
bulk of the Church shall have the form of godliness, but deny the power.

Men shall be lovers of their own selveswho can deny that selfishness
is not a crowning sin of this age?covetouslook at the heaping
up of riches, at the cost of the peace, the honour, the very blood
of others,incontinentthe increase in our divorce court cases is
alarming, disgusting,lovers of pleasurethe whole nation has run mad
on pleasures.

I need not enlarge further on this side of the subject, save to repeat
that the Word of God is most plain and emphatic on this point, that the
return of our Lord is to be marked by a fearful declension from vital
godliness. But, with all this, there is to be a world-wide proclamation
of the truth of salvation in Jesus. Not necessarily that every individual
soul shall hear it, but that all nations, etc., shall have it preached to
them.

Now, in this connection, let me mention a fact that has deeply impressed
me. It is this, that the greatest reawakening in the hearts of individual
Christians in all the churchesEngland, America, the Coloniesas
testified to by all concerned, agrees, in time, with the awakening of
the Church of Christ to the special need of intercession for foreign
missionsnamely, from 1873-75.

I must close for this afternoon, lest I weary you. We will, God
willing, come together again here on Tuesday at the same hour, and I
pray you all to be much in prayer for blessing on the attempt to open up
these wondrous truths, and pray also that the right kind of people may be
gathered in. Will you all work for this, as well as pray for it? Invite
people to the meetings.

Do either of you know any editors of a daily paper? If so, write to
such, draw attention to these expositions, urge your editors to come. Oh,
if only we could capture the daily press! What an extended pulpit, what a
far-reaching voice would our subject immediately possess!

I dont quite know how far I ought to go on this line, but even as I
speak, it comes to me to ask you if any one here present is acquainted
with the evidently-gifted, open-minded editor of The Courier. We have
all, of course, been struck by his own utterances from the Prophets
Chamber column. Oh that he could be captured for Christ; then his paper
would doubtless be a clarion for his Lord!

Tom Hammond turned hot and cold. He trusted that no one had recognized
him. He would be glad to get away unrecognized. Yet he was not offended
by the speakers personal allusion to him. He felt that the majors soul
rang true.

Before I close, the major went on, suffer me to read an extract from
the Gentlemans Magazine, of the year seventeen hundred and fifty-nine:

Mr. Urban,Reading over chapter eleven, verse two, of Revelation, a
thought came to me that I had hit upon the meaning of it which I desire
youll publish in one of your future magazines. The verse runs thus:
But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not,
for it is given to the Gentiles, and the holy city shall they tread under
foot forty and two months.

Now, according to the Scriptural way of putting a day for a year, if
we multiply forty-two months by thirty (the number of days contained in
a Jewish month,) we have the time the Turks will reign over the Jews
country, and the city of Jerusalemviz., 1,260; which, if we add to the
year of our Lord 636, when Jerusalem was taken by the Turks, we have
the year of our Lord 1896, near or about which time the Jews will be
reinstated in their own country and city, Jerusalem, again, which will be
about 137 years hence; and that the Turks are the Gentiles mentioned in
the above-quoted chapter and verse appears from their having that country
and city in possession about 1,123 years, and will continue to possess it
till the Omnipotent God, in His own time, bringeth this prophecy to its
full period.

This letter is signed M. Forster, and is dated from Bessborough,
October 24th, 1759. I have very little sympathy with those of our
brethren who are ever venting in speech and in print the exact dates
(as they declare) of the coming events surrounding the return of our
Lord, but I do believe (in spite of the somewhat hazy chronology at
our command) that the regarding of approximate times is perfectly
permissible, and the letter I have read you has some value when, taking
dates, etc., approximately, we remember that this letter was written
nearly a hundred and fifty years ago, and that 1896 was memorable for a
distinct movement towards the Holy Land.

So, I say, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. To myself and to every
Christian here, I would say, May God help us to quicken all our hearts,
and purify all our lives, that we may not be ashamed at His coming.

And to any who are here (if such there be) who are not converted, may
God help you to seek His face, that you may not be left, when He shall
suddenly, silently snatch away His Church out of this godless generation.
Left!

Think of what that will mean, unsaved friend, if you are here to-day.
Left! Left behind! When the Spirit of God will have been taken out of the
earth. When Satan will dwell on the earthfor, with the coming of Christ
into the air, Satan, the prince of the power of the air, will have to
descend.

Christ and Satan can never live in the same realm. Oh, God, save anyone
here from being leftleft behind, to come upon the unspeakable judgments
which will follow the taking out of the world of the Church!

    Some husband, whose head was laid on his bed,
      Throbbing with mad excess,
    Awakes from that dream by the lightning gleam,
      Alone in his last distress.

    For the patient wife, who through each days life,
      Watched and wept for his soul,
    Is taken away, and no more shall pray,
      For the judgment thunders roll.

    And that thoughtless fair who breathed no prayer,
      Oft as her husband knelt,
    Shall find he is fled, and start from her bed
      To feel as never she felt.

    The children of day are summoned away;
      Left are the children of night.

It is high time for us all to awake. God keep us awake and watching for
our Lord, for His precious names sake. Amen.

The murmured Amens rolled through the congregation like the deep surge of
a sea billow on a shingle shore.

Our time has gone, friends, cried the major. We will sing two verses
only of the closing hymn 410, the first and last verse. Sing straight
away.

Tom Hammond, wondered at it all much as ever, listened while the song
rang out:

    When Jesus comes to reward His servants,
      Whether it be noon or night,
    Faithful to Him will He find us watching?
      With our lamps all trimmed and bright?

    CHORUS.

      Oh, can we say we are ready, brother?
        Ready for the souls bright home?
      Say, will He find you and me still watching,
        Waiting, waiting, when the Lord shall come?

    Blessed are those whom the Lord finds watching
      In His glory they shall share:
    If He shall come at the dawn or midnight,
      Will He find us watching there?

Again the chorus rang out, and as Tom Hammond left the hall, the question
of it clung to him. It forced itself upon his brain; it groped about for
his heart; it clamoured to be hearkened to.




CHAPTER XVI.

HER CABIN COMPANION.


Therell be one other lady with you in your cabin, miss.

The berth-stewards announcement in no way disconcerted Madge Finisterre.
She had had two cabin companions on the outward voyage.

She was arranging her cabin necessaries when her fellow-traveller
entered. She was a wee, winsome girl, very fragile in appearance, with a
yearning sweetness in her great grey eyes, such as Madge had never seen
in any eyes before. With half-a-dozen words of exchanged greeting and a
very warm handshake, the pair became instant friends.

By a strange but happy coincidence neither of them ever suffered from
sea-sickness, and from the first moment of the great liners departure
they became inseparable.

As the vessel forged her way down Channel that evening, a glorious moon
shining down upon them, the two girls, arm-in-arm, paced the promenade
deck talking. The subject of the acute distress among the poor and
out-of-works in all the worlds great cities came up between them.

Oh, if only our Lord would come quickly! cried the girlKate Harland
was her name.

What do you mean, Kate? Madges voice was full of amazed wonder.

I mean that

The fragile girl paused; then, glancing quickly up into Madges face, she
cried:

You love Jesus, of course, Madge? You are saved, dear, and looking for
His coming?

For an instant Madge was silent. Then, with a deep sigh, she replied:

Oh, me! I am afraid I am not saved, as you call it. Katie, dear, the
fact is

She halted in her speech. She did not know how to put into words all that
her friends question had aroused within her.

While she halted thus, the girl at her side put her arms about her,
clasping her with a kind of yearningan I will not let you go kind of
claspas she cried, softly:

Oh, my darling, you must not lie down to-night until you know you are
Christs. Thenthenafter that, nothing can ever matter. Come weal, come
woe, come life, come death, all is well!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was past midnight before the two girls climbed into their berths, but
by that time Madge Finisterre knew that she had passed from death into
life.

Before the vessel reached New York she had learned something of the truth
of the near return of the Lord.

On the quay, when they landed, the two girls bade each other a sorrowful
farewell.

We shall meet in heaven, Katie, if nevermore on earth, sobbed Madge.

In the air, my darling, replied the other. Do not let us lose sight of
that. When our Lord shall come,

    Loved ones shall meet in a joyful surprise,
    Caught up together to Him in the skies,
      When Jesus shall come once again.

Kate Harlands friends, who had travelled to meet her from Denver,
carried her off, and Madge took the car to the Central.

One hour later she boarded the train and began the last lap of her long
journey.

Her spirits rose higher every moment. She had conceived a very bold idea,
and she was going to carry it through after her own fashion. She sent no
message of warning of her coming, as this would spoil her little plot.

Her eyes rested delightedly upon every place she passed. At Garrisons,
where the train waited a few minutes, she caught a glimpse of the father
of the man whom she was hurrying to meet.

The white-haired old father lived at Garrisons, and was a preacher of
the Gospel, like his son. He was leaving the depot as her train pulled
up. She easily recognized him, because several times during his sons
pastorate at Balhang he had been to see him, staying a week at a time,
and preaching once on the Sunday on each occasion.

At Duchess Junction she had to change trains. To her joy, she met no one
from Balhang; there was not a soul at the depot whom she even knew by
sight.

Just before her train reached Balhang she donned a thick brown gauze
veil. No one could see her face through this to recognize it. There
would be nothing to detain her at the depot, for her baggage was all
expressed.

The train stopped; she alighted. Several people peered hard at her, the
depot manager especially, as he took her check, but no one recognized
her. She passed on. Twenty yards from the depot she met Judge Anstey.

She stopped him with a Good day, Judge; can I speak with you?

Certainly, madam, the official replied genially.

Come aside, Judge, she whispered. I dont want anyone to recognize me,
or to hear what I am saying to you, should people pass.

As he moved on by her side in the direction she wished, she whispered:

I have put on this thick veil, Judge, so as not to be recognized. I am
Madge Finisterre.

Du say! he gasped. I knew the voice, but could not recall whose it
was. I hadnt heard a breath of your coming home, Miss Madge.

I let no one, not even mumma and poppa, know that I was coming, she
replied. The fact is, Judge

She was glad, as she prepared to take him into her confidence, that the
thick veil would hide the hot colour that she felt leaped into her face.

Momma wrote me, she went on, that the pastor was very sick, and
that the doctor didnt understand his case. I only got the letter last
Saturday morning. The boat was to start that day at two; but I caught it,
for I knew that would cure the pastor.

She felt how fiercely the blushes burned in her cheeks, but, assured that
he could not see them, she went on:

Just before I started for Europe, Judge, pastor told me he loved me, and
asked me to be his wife

She watched the amused amaze leap into the Judges face, and smiled
herself at his low whistle.

I told him, she continued, I could make him no definite promise, as I
was not quite sure of myself; but that, when I was, I would not wait for
him to ask me againI would come and tell him. I am going straight to him
now, Judge, and I want you to give me a clear quarter of an hours start.
While I am gone to fix him up and to make him happy, I want you to go
long to mumma and poppa, and bring them right along with you, and marry
me and pastor as soon as you git up to us. So-long for a quarter of an
hour.

Without another word she moved swiftly away.

Shes tropical! he laughed, as he saw her making for Mrs. Kellers,
where the pastor boarded.

       *       *       *       *       *

The French windows of the pastors sitting-room were open, for the day
was like a spring one. Madge moved quickly across the patch of grass,
mounted the stoop, and peered in.

In a large rocker, looking very frail and ill, the young pastor was lying
back with his eyes closed.

Madge felt her eyes fill with tears. She lifted the disguising veil, and
wiped the salt drops away. She did not lower her veil again, but with a
little glad cry of

Homer, dear love! she crossed the threshold, and dropped on her knees
by his side, flung her arms around his neck, and laid her hot lips to his.

It was like a dream to hima wondrous, delicious dream. His thin arms
clasped her. His kisses were rained upon her, but at first he found no
words to say. Between their passionately-exchanged kisses she poured out,
in rapid, caress-punctured speech, how she came to be there.

I have not seen mumma or poppa yet, she explained; but I met Judge
Anstey down by the depot. I have sent him home for mumma and poppa; they
will be here in no time now. The Judge will come with them, and will
marry us right off, dear. For, say, you do want some nursing.

He found his voice at last, declared that her coming, her first kiss, had
made him strong; that he would need no nursing now that she had come.
Getting on to his feet, he gathered her into his arms, and rained fresh
kisses upon her lips, her cheeks, her brow, her eyes.

She managed to whisper the good news, I have found Jesus, dear, or He
found me, and now

A sound of voices and of hurrying steps outside checked her. She had only
time to tear herself from his arms when her mother and father reached her
side.

An hour later, when the Judge had been and gone again, Madge Finisterre
was the wife of the pastor.




CHAPTER XVII.

CASTING A SHOE.


It was two hours after midnight when Tom Hammond was free at last. But
he did not go to bed. His soul was disturbed. What he had heard at the
majors meeting had stirred a myriad disquieting thoughts within him, and
now that he was clear to do it, he shut himself up alone with a Bible,
and began to go over every point of the majors address. He had taken
copious notes in shorthand, paying especial attention to the texts quoted
and referred to.

At the end of an hour he looked up from his Bible. There was a wondering
amaze in his eyes, a strange, perplexed knitting of his brows.

It is all most marvellous! he murmured. There is not a flaw or hitch
anywhere in the majors statements or reasoning. The Scriptures prove, to
the hilt, every word that he uttered.

He smiled to himself as, rising to his feet, he said aloud,

I should not sleep if I went to bed; I will go out.

There are ways of getting into some of the London parks before the
regulation hour for opening the gates. Tom Hammond had often found a way
to forestall the park-opener.

Ten minutes after leaving his chambers he was inside the park he loved
best. Everything was eerily still and silent. The calm suited his mood.
He wanted to feel, as well as to be, absolutely alone. He had his
desire. There had been a thick mist over London overnight, but the
atmosphere was as clear as a bell now. The air was as balmy as a morning
in May or September.

There was a faint light from the stars that stabbed the deep violet sky.
He moved slowly, thoughtfully, through paths as familiar to him as the
rooms he occupied at home.

And the Christ might come to-day! he mused. As Major H showed
plainly from the Bible, there is no other prophetic event to transpire
before His coming.

Almost unconsciously he paused in his walking.

If, he cried softly, a certain fearsomeness in his voice, if He came
to-day, came now, what about me? Where should I come in?

He recalled the fact that, according to the majors showing, he, Tom
Hammond, was quite unprepared for Christs coming, because he was still
unsaved. He shivered slightly as the thought of his unpreparedness came
to him.

With the flashing swiftness of one of memorys freaks, there leaped into
his mind some lines of Charles Wesleys. He had written them, a day or
two before, in illustration of a certain statement in an article on
hymnology. They had not borne any message to his soul then, but now they
seemed like the voicing of his own inmost thoughts.

He walked slowly on, the words falling from his lips in half-uttered
notes.

    And am I only born to die?
    And must I suddenly comply
      With natures stern decree?
    What after death for me remains
    Celestial joys, or bitter pains,
      To all eternity?

    No room for mirth or trifling here,
    For worldly hope, or worldly fear,
      If life so soon is gone
    If now the Judge is at the door,
    And all mankind must stand before
      The inexorable throne!

    Nothing is worth a thought beneath,
    But how I may escape the death
      That never, never dies
    How make my own election sure,
    And, when I fail on earth, secure
      A mansion in the skies.

There was something inspiring, something helpful, in the last verse, he
mused, but, for the life of me, I cannot recall it.

The piping note of a robin from a clump of bush trees close by broke into
his reverie. He lifted his head sharply and looked around, then upwards.
The stars had paled in the violet dome above him. Somewhere near, ahead
of him, was a piece of ornamental water. He caught a glimpse of it
between the trees.

Pip-pip! came again from the robins throat. He remembered Charles Fox,
and said softly aloud:

    Came forward to be seen,
    My little bright-eyed fellow,
    And an honest one as well O
    In thy suit of olive green,
    With red-orange vest between,
    And small touching voice so mellow.

The bird suddenly flew across his path, dropped upon a low piece of iron
fencing, glanced askance at him, then darted to where a morning meal
peeped out of the damp sod.

Two or three other low, sleepy bird-notes followed, then the water-fowl
began their discordant quacking. The tremulous flutenotes of a thrush
made rich music on the morning air.

The stars faded out of sight. The cold grey light of dawning day moved
into the eastern horizon. The smell of the earth grew rank. The air grew
keener. The east slowly reddened. Roofs and towers of houses and churches
grew up slowly, and grey amid the cold light of the dawn. He turned to
face the spot where he knew the great clock-tower of Westminster could
be seen. A light burned high aloft in the tower, telling that Englands
legislators were still in session.

Slowly, thoughtfully, he turned back to walk home.

If Christ came at this instant, he mused, how many of those Commoners
and Peers would be ready to meet Him? And what of the teeming millions of
this mighty city? God help us all! What blind fools we are!

       *       *       *       *       *

In spite of his night vigil Tom Hammond was in his office at his usual
hour. He had been there about an hour when there came a short, sharp rap
on the panel of his room-door. In response to his Come in! Joyce, the
drunken reporter lurched in. In some way he had contrived to elude those
on duty in the enquiry-office.

He was the worse for drink, and in response to Hammonds sharp queries:

What do you want? How came you here unannounced? he began to beg the
loan of five shillings.

Not a copper! cried Hammond.

Joyce whined for it.

Hammond refused more sharply.

The drunken wretch cringed, whimpered for just arf-a-crown.

The fellow began to bluster, then to threaten.

If you dont leave this room, Ill hurl you out, cried Hammond, and
give you in custody of the police.

The drunken beast straightened his limp form as well as he was able, as
he hiccoughed:

All rightsh, Tom Hamnd. Every dawg hash hish day. Youre havin yoursh
now, all rightshall rightsh,but Illhicdo fur yer; Illhicruin yer;
Ill

Tom Hammond darted from his place by the table. The next instant he would
have put his threat of hurling out into execution, but the drunken
braggart did not wait for him, for he shuffled out of the room, cursing
hideously.

As the door closed upon him, Tom Hammond went across to the window, and
flung up the lower sashes, and drew down the upper ones. From a drawer
in a cabinet he took a strip of scented joss-paper, and lit it. The
sandal-like perfume spread instantly through all the room.

Faugh! he muttered. The whole place seems foul after his presence.

He turned to his wash-stand, rolled back the polished top, and washed his
hands.

Ill see Ralph, he muttered, as he dried his hands and go out for a
couple of hours. Ill go and see Cohen.

It was curious how often he found excuse to visit the Jew.

A quarter of an hour later he drove up to the house of Cohen. He found
him, with his wife and Zillah, on the point of starting for their
synagogue.

One may live a life-time, as a Jew, in this country, Cohen explained,
and never see the ceremony that is about to take place in our synagogue.
It is what is known in our religion as Chalitza. Will you go with us,
Mr. Hammond?

Tom Hammonds eyes met Zillahs. Then he promptly said

Yes to the Jews question.

Right, then! We can explain about the ceremony as we go! Cohen said,
and the quartette left the house.

There was not much time for explanation, but what Tom Hammond heard
convinced him that he was a fortunate journalist that day. He had no
opportunity of talking with Zillah, but he found his heart beating with a
strange wildness whenever his eyes met hersand they frequently met.

At the door of the synagogue the party had to separate, the two women
going one way, Cohen and Hammond another. The building was filling very
fast. Presently it was packed to suffocation.

It was Tom Hammonds first sight of a Jewish congregation in a synagogue.
It amazed him. The hatted men and bewigged womenthese latter sat behind
a grille. The gorgeousness of much of the female finery. The curious
praying shawlsthe Talith of the men.

Suddenly a Rabbi began to intone the opening words of the service,
reading from the roll of the law, The Holy Scroll: If brethren dwell
together, and one of them die, and have no child, the wife of the dead
shall not marry without unto a stranger; her husbands brother shall take
her to wife, and perform the duty of a husbands brother to her.... And
if the man like not to take his brothers wife, then let his brothers
wife go up to the gate unto the elders, and say, My husbands brother
refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name in Israel, he will not
perform the duty of my husbands brother.

Then the elder of the city shall call the man, and speak unto him: and
if he stand to it, and say, I like not to take her;

Then shall his brothers wife come unto him in the presence of the
elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and shall spit in his face,
and shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will
not build up his brothers house.

And his name shall be called in Israel, the house of him that hath his
shoe loosed.

The service was all very curious in the eyes of Tom Hammond. He followed
every item of it with the closest, most interested attention. Presently
the parties specially concerned mounted the platform. This platform was
backed with a huge square frame covered with black cloth. This was meant
to symbolize mourning for the dead husband. Three tall candle-sticks held
lighted candles, their flames looking weird and sickly in the daylight.

The Rabbi stooped before the brother-in-law, and took off his right shoe
and sock. Another official washed the foot, wiped it with a towel, and
pared the toe-nails.

A soft white shoe, made specially for the occasion, was then taken by the
rabbi, put on to the bare foot of the man, and laced up very tightly, the
long ends of the lace being twisted round the ankle and knotted securely.

Then there followed a seemingly interminable string of questions, put by
the rabbi, and answered by the brother-in-law. The catechism culminated
in a few chief questions such as:

Do you wish to marry this woman?

I do not, replied the brother-in-law.

For what reason?

I am already married; my wife is living, and the law of the land we
live in does not permit my having more than one wife.

The reply rang clear and strong through the silent building, and the hush
seemed to deepen as the rabbi asked,

Will you give this woman Chalitza?

Certainly I will, if she wishes it, replied the brother-in-law.

Turning to the woman, the rabbi asked, Do you wish to receive Chalitza?

Tom Hammond saw how the light of a great eagerness leaped into the eyes
of the beautiful Jewess, and how her face glowed with the warmth of a
sudden colour, as she replied,

I do wish for Chalitza, for I desire to marry again.

The rabbis assistant gave her certain instructions, and she knelt before
her brother-in-law, and with the thumb and finger of her right handshe
dare not use the left, however difficult her task might prove,she began
untying the knots in the lace fastenings around the ankle.

It was no childs play to unfasten the shoe. The knots had been drawn
very tight; but she was very determined, and presently a deep sigh of
relief broke from the breathless, watching congregation, as, taking the
shoe from the mans foot, she flung it sharply down, twice, upon the
floor.

She rose now to her feet to complete the ceremony. The law of spitting
in the face of the man had been modified to meet the views of a day less
gross than when it was carried out in full coarseness.

The brother-in-law took a couple of paces backwards, and the beautiful
widow spat on the place he had stood a moment before.

Then she faced the great congregation. Her eyes travelled straight to the
face of the man she loved, whom she was shortly to marry. Her eyes danced
with excitement, her cheeks were rosy with colour, her whole face was
full of an indescribable rapture, as she cried:

I am free!

True, sister, you are free! the brother-in-law responded.

The rabbi moved swiftly to her side, and, looking into her face, said:

O woman of Israel, you are free!

With a shout that reminded Tom Hammond of the shout, He is risen!
at the Easter service in the Greek churches of Russia, the excited,
perspiring congregation cried: Woman, you are free!

A moment or two later the service concluded, and the building emptied.
Walking homeward by Hammonds side, Cohen said, Only the most orthodox
of Jews would dream of using Chalitza to free themselves for re-marrying.
This is the only case I have personally known. By-the-bye, Mr. Hammond,
it is said that about the middle of the eighteenth century that one of
the Rothschild widows sought Chalitza, but failed to untie the lace of
the shoe, and was disqualified from re-marrying.

Cohens wife had stopped to speak to some friends. The young Jew joined
her. Tom Hammond found himself moving forward by Zillahs side.

What an extraordinary service that was, Miss Robart! he said.

It was! she glanced almost shyly away from him, for, unknown to himself
his eyes were full of the warmest admiration.

Do you think, Miss Robart, he went on, if you were situated as was
that beautiful woman whom we have just seen freed from the Mosaic bond,
that you would have braved the Chalitza ceremony, or would you have taken
advantage of the English law and

She lifted her great, black, lustrous eyes to his in a sudden gaze of
utter frankness, as, interrupting him, she cried:

I would certainly not marry any man, save one whom I could wholly revere
and love!

Happy the man whom you shall thus honour, Miss Robart!

Tom Hammond barely whispered the words, and she was not wholly sure that
he meant them for her ears. She did not respond in any way. But she was
conscious that his gaze was fixed upon her. She was equally conscious
that she was blushing furiously.

Perhaps it was to give her a chance of recovering herself, that his next
question was on quite a different topic.

Are you, Miss Robart, he said, wholly wedded to the Jewish faith? Do
you believe, for instance, that Jesus, the Nazarene, was an impostor?

He heard the catch that came into her throat. Then, with a
half-frightened look around, she lifted her melting eyes to his, as she
said, I can trust you, Mr. Hammond, I know. You will keep my confidence,
if I give it to you?

His eyes answered her, and she went on.

I have not dared to breathe a word of it to anyone, not even to my good
brother-in-law Abraham, but I am learning to love the Christ.

Her face was filled with a holy light, her cheeks glowed with excitement,
as she went on:

I see how the prophecies of our forefathersIsaiah especiallywere all
literally fulfilled in the life and work of Jesus of Nazareth. I see,
too, that when next He comes, it will not be as our race supposes, as the
Messiah to the Jews, but He will come in the air, and

She glanced sharply round. Some instinct told her her friends were coming.

No more now, she whispered. I will tell you more another time. I
shall myself know more, to-night. I go twice a week to a mission-room at
Spitalfields

What time? he asked eagerly.

Seven, she replied, not realizing the eagerness of his tone.

Where is this place? he went on.

She had just time to tell him. When Cohen and his wife came up, husband
and wife began talking together. Zillah appeared to listen, but in
reality she heard nothing of what they were saying. For a strange thing
had happened.

She had dropped her hand by her side as the Cohens had rejoined them, and
had suddenly found her fingers clasped in Hammonds hand.

What did it mean? she wondered. They had met often of late. She had read
an unmistakable ardency in his eyes very often, when her glance met his.
And, deep in her own heart, she knew that all the woman-love she would
ever have to give a man she had unconsciously given to him. Was this
sudden secret handclasp of his a silent expression of love on his part,
or was it meant merely as an assurance of sympathy in the matter of her
new faith?

She could not be sure which it was, but she let her plump fingers give
a little pressure of response. How did he translate this response? she
wondered. She had no means of deciding, save that her heart leaped wildly
in a tumultuous delight as she felt how he literally gripped her fingers
in a closer, warmer clasp.

They had reached the house by this time. Hammond would not go in. He
shook hands, in parting, with each, but his hold upon Zillahs hand was
longer than on the others. He pressed the fingers meaningly, and his eyes
held an ardency that gave a new tumult to her heart.

As she passed into the house she whispered to herself, Will he be at
Spitalfields to-night?




CHAPTER XVIII.

TOLD IN A CAB.


A quarter of an hour before the time Zillah had given him, Tom Hammond
was waiting near the Mission Hall for Jews, where the meeting was to be
held. He was anxious that she should not know of his proximity, so kept
out of sight,there were many possibilities of this among the various
stalls in the gutter-way.

Presently he saw her coming, and the light of a glad admiration leaped
into his eyes. What a superb face and figure she has! he mused. What a
perfect queen of a woman she is!

From behind a whelk-stall he watched her cross over to the door of the
Hall. Here she paused a moment, and glanced around.

I believe she half expected to see me somewhere near! he murmured to
himself.

She entered the Hall. By the time her head was bowed in prayer, he had
entered, and had taken a seat on the last form, the fourth behind hers.
When she first raised her head from her silent prayer, she looked around
and backward. In her heart she was hoping he would be there. If he had
not been bending in prayer, she must have seen him. After that she turned
no more, the service soon occupied all her thoughts.

He too became utterly absorbed by the service, of which the address
was the chief feature. It was largely expository, and from the first
utterance of the speaker, it riveted Tom Hammonds attention.

The speaker, himself a converted Jew, took as his text Deut. xxi. 22, 23.

If a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and is sentenced to
death, and thou hang him on a tree, his corpse shall not remain all night
upon the tree, but, burying, thou shalt bury him on that day (because he
who is hanged is accursed of God).

Now, brethren, the speaker went on, as far as I have been able to
discover, in all the Hebrew records I have been able to consult, and in
all the histories of our race, I have not found a single reference to a
Hebrew official hanging of a criminal on a tree. To what, then, does this
verse refer, and why is it placed on Jehovahs statute-book?

For a few moments he appealed to his Jewish hearers on points peculiarly
Hebraic. Then presently he said,

Now let us see if the New Testament will shed any light upon this.

Turning rapidly the leaves of his Bible, he went on: There is a book in
the Christian Scriptures known as the Epistle to the Galatians which,
in the tenth verse of the third chapter, repeats our own word from
Deuteronomy:

Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written
in the Book of the Law to do them, and in the thirteenth verse says,
Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse
for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree.

We all, brethren, as the sons of Abraham, believe that our father
Davids Psalm beginning, My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me? was
never written out of his own experience, but was prophetic of some other
Person. Now, let me quote you some of the words of that Psalm.

In clear, succinct language, the speaker, quoting verse after verse of
the Psalm, showed how literally the descriptions fitted into a death
by crucifixion. Referring to the Gospel narratives of the death on the
cross, he showed how they also fitted in with the description of Christs
death, and how Christ actually took upon His dying lips the cry of the
Psalm, My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?

Then with wondrous clearness he referred to parts of Isaiah liii., and,
continuing his theme, showed that it was evident that only one particular
type of death could have atoned for the sin of the human race, a death
that would render the dying one accursed of the Almighty. The only death
that would fully carry out that condition was crucifixion.

Our race waited for the Messiah, he cried, and He came. Our prophet
Micah said, Yet thou, O Bethlehem-Ephratah, little as thou art amidst
the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall proceed from Me, One who is
to be ruler in Israel!

The Christ was born at the only time in the worlds history when
He could have been executed on a treecrucified. At a time when the
Romancrucifixion was a Roman punishmentswayed our beloved land of
Jewry. So that Paul, the great Jew, chosen of God to be apostle to the
Gentiles, wrote after the crucifixion of Jesus, the Nazarene, According
to the time, Christ died.

For some minutes the speaker appealed to his Jewish hearers with a
wonderful power. Then finally addressing not only the Jews, but any
Gentiles who might be present, he cried:

We must know the meaning of sin, brethren, before we can understand
the mystery of a crucified Christ. A beheaded, a stoned Christ, could
not have atoned for a guilty world, but only a God-cursed death, a
tree-cursed death could have done this.

And Christ was cursed for usHe who knew no curse of His own. Ah!
beloved, the guilt of the human race is the key to the cross.

Times change, customs change, but sin remains, sin is ever the same, and
only a living, personal trust in the crucified Christ can ever deliver
the unsaved sinner from the wrath of God which abideth on him.

The address closed. Tom Hammond awoke from his intense absorption of
soul. He had long since utterly forgotten Zillah. He had seen only
himself, at first, his own sin, and that his sin had nailed Christ to the
cross. Then, better still, he saw the Christ.

Only a few nights before he had paused to watch a Salvation Army
open-air meeting. The girl-officer in charge of the corps had announced
thirty-eight as the number of the hymn they would sing, and prefaced the
reading of the first verse by saying:

This hymn was written by an ex-drunkardan ex-blasphemer. His name was
Newtondrunken Jack Newton, he was often called by his mates, and by
others who knew him. He was a sailor, on a ship trading to the African
coast, at the time when his soul was aroused to its danger. He was in
agony, not knowing what to do to get rest and peace.

One night he was keeping anchor-watch. He was alone on the deck, the
night was dark and eerie. His sins troubled him. All that he had heard
of the crucified Christwhom he had so often blasphemedswept into his
soul, and he groaned in the misery of his sin-convicted state.

Suddenly he paused in his deck-pacing, and looked up. To his fevered
imagination, the yard which crossed the mast high up above his head
appeared like a mighty cross, and it was remembering this, with all the
soul-experience of that night, that in after years, when he became a
preacher of the gospel, and a noted divine, Dr. John Newton wrote:

    I saw One hanging on a tree
      In agonies and blood,
    Who fixed His dying eyes on me,
      As near the cross I stood.
    A second look He gave, which said,
      I freely all forgive
    My blood was for thy ransom paid,
      I die that thou mayst live.

Recalling these words now, Tom Hammonds soul received the great
Revelation. He heard no word of the closing hymn and prayer, but passed
out into the open air a new man in Christ.

The mission-leader had given an invitation to any who would like to be
helped in soul matters to remain behind. Tom Hammond noticed that Zillah
lingered.

It was half-an-hour before she came out. Tom Hammond had lived a
life-time of wonder in the thirty minutes.

Like one in a delicious dream Zillah walked on a few yards. Suddenly she
became aware of Tom Hammonds presence at her side.

Zillah!

He gave her no other word of greeting. It was the first time he had ever
called the young girl by her first name. He took her hand, and drew it
through his arm. She barely noticed the tender action, for her soul was
rioting in a new-found joy, and she poured out, in a few sentences, all
the story of her supreme trust in Christ the Nazarene.

His voice was hoarse with many emotions, as he said,

I, too, Zillah, have to-night seen Jesus Christ dying for my sin, and
have taken Him for my own personal Saviour!

Suddenly she realized how closely he was holding her to his side, how
tight was the clasp of his hand upon hers. She looked up into his face
to express her joy at his new-found faith. Their eyes met. A new meaning
flashed in their exchanged glances.

A four-wheeled cab moved slowly along in the gutter-way, the driver
uttered a low Keb, keb!

Tom Hammond seized the opportune offer, and whispered,

Let us take a cab, Zillah. I have something to say to you which I must
say to-night.

Before scarcely she realized it, she was seated by his side in the cab.

There is a moment in every womans life when her heart warns her of the
coming of the great event in that life, when love is to be offered to her
by the only man who has ever loomed large enough in her consciousness to
be able to affect her existence.

This moment had suddenly unexpectedly come to Zillah Robart.

Her heart warned her that the crisis was upon her. She had done nothing
to precipitate it. It had met her, drawn her aside, and had shut her up
in the semi-darkness of this vehicle with the only man she could ever
love.

The cab rattled over the cobbles of that wide East-end thoroughfare, past
the throngs of moving pedestrians, though, to her consciousness, the
whole wide world consisted of but one manthe man at her side.

He had secured her hand, he held it in his strong, hot clasp. She held
her breath in a strange, expectant ecstasy. Then the inevitable came. She
felt its coming.

Tom Hammond was drawing her closer to himself. She was yielding to that
drawing. She caught her breath again, and as she did so a rush of strange
tears filled her eyes.

Zillah! his voice was hoarse and deep.

She realized the meaning of the hoarseness. She knew by her own feeling
that the depth and intensity of his voice was due to the emotion that
filled him. She knew she would have found herself voiceless at that
moment had she tried to speak.

I love you, my darling! he went on. I have loved you from the first
instant I met you. You have felt it, known it, dear. Have you not?

She tried to speak, her lips moved, but no sound came from them. But she
looked into his eyes, and he read his answer.

With a sweeping gesture of passionate love he gathered her into his arms
and showered kisses upon her lips, her cheeks, her forehead, her hair.

She lay like a stunned thing in his arms. Her joy was almost greater than
she could bear. Then as his hot lips sought hers again, she awoke from
her semi-trance of ecstasy, and with a little sob she flung her arms
upwards and clasped them about his neck, crying,

Love you, my darling? Love seems too poor a word to express my feeling,
for God knows that, save my Lord Jesus, to whom to-night I have fully
yielded, you are all my life.

Her voice was stifled with a little rush of tears. Where she lay on his
breast, he felt how all her frame quivered.

And you will be mine, dear Zillahand soon? His eyes burned into hers,
asking for an answer as loudly as his lips.

She did not answer him for a moment. Her heart beat with a tumultuous
gladness, and her brain throbbed with the wonder of what she conceived to
be the honour that had come to her. Wondering incredulity mingled with
the rapturous ecstasy that filled her.

But you are so greatso She paused, she could find no words to
express all that prospective wifedom to him appeared to her.

He smiled down into her eyes. Her loveliness seemed to him greater than
ever before.

You seem like a king to me! she gasped at last.

You, Zillah, he smiled, do not seem, you are, a queen to me. Say,
darling, the one word that shall fill all my soul with delightsay that
you will be mineand soon, very soon!

I will.

There was the intensity of a mighty love in her utterance of the two
words.

He gathered her to himself in an even closer embrace, and spent his
kisses on her lips.

The flush of pride, of love, burned deeper in her face.

Oh, why is it given to me to have such bliss? she murmured.

The words were low-breathed; they sounded like a gasping sigh of delight
more than a voiced utterance.

For a moment, clasped tightly in his arms, she was silent, and he
uttered no word. Presently he whispered,

Will it give you joy, I wonder, my darling, to know that I have been
a man free of all womans love before? I have seen many women, in many
lands, the loveliest of the earththough none so lovely as you, my
sweetheart. It is no egotism on my part, either, to say that many women
have sought my love by their smiles and favour. But none ever won a word
of love or response from me.

The cab was passing a great central light in the heart of a junction of
four roads. Her eyes, full of a great rapture, sought his. His were fixed
upon her face, and filled with a love so great that again she caught her
breath in wonder.

But you, my Zillah! He caught her close to himself again, and bending
his head, let his lips cling to hers, But you, darling! he continued,
have been to me all that the heart of man could ever wish for, from the
first moment I met you. May God give us a long life together, dearest,
and make us (with our new-born faith in Him) to be the best, the holiest
help-meets, the one to the other, that this world has ever known.

Where she lay in his arms, he felt her tremble with the intensity of her
joy. As he looked down into the deep, dreamy lustrousness of her eyes,
he saw how they were full of a far-off look, as though she was picturing
that united future of which he had spoken.

Perhaps he read that look in her eyes aright. Then, as he watched her, he
saw how the colour deepened in her face. She slowly, proudly, yet with a
glad frankness, lifted herself in his arms until, in a tender, passionate
caress, her lips rested upon his in the first spontaneous kiss she had
given him.

If the Christ, to whom we have given ourselves to-night, should tarry,
she whispered, and we are spared to dwell together on earth as husband
and wife, dear Tom, may God answer all that prayer of yours abundantly.

The cab turned a corner sharply at that moment. He looked through the
window. They were within a few hundred yards of where he had given the
driver orders to stop. Zillah would have, on alighting, only the length
of a short street to traverse before reaching home, and he would take a
hansom and drive back to the office. But the intervening moments before
they would part were very precious, and love took unlimited toll in those
swift, fleeting moments.




CHAPTER XIX.

TOM HAMMOND REVIEWING.


It was the morning after Tom Hammond had found Christ, and had closed
with the great offer of redemption. He had scarcely slept for the joy of
the two loves that had so suddenly come into his life.

During the sleepless hours, he had learned, for the first time in his
life, the true secret of prayer, and that even greater secret, that of
communion.

With real prayer there is always a certain degree of communion, but real,
deep, soul-filling communion is more often found in seasons when the
communing one asks for nothing, but, silent before his or her God, the
sense of the Divine fills all the being, and if the lips utter any sound
it is the cry, My Lord and my God!

Tom Hammond, reviewing all that God had revealed to him, learned in those
first hours of his new birth the secret of adoring communion with God.

In the book of extracts he had been reading in the tube train at the
moment when he had first heard of Major Hs coming address on the
Second Advent, he had come across one headed, Frederick William Faber:
The Precious Bloodchap. iv. He had at the time been considerably
impressed with the extract, though there was a certain note about it
which he had failed to understand. In the flush of the great revelation
that had come to his soul (in that little meeting at Spitalfields), he
now found the book, and re-read the extract:

I was upon the sea-shore; and my heart filled with love it knew not why.
Its happiness went out over the wide waters, and upon the unfettered
wind, and swelled up into the free dome of blue sky until it filled it.
The dawn lighted up the faces of the ivory cliffs, which the sun and sea
had been blanching for centuries of Gods unchanging love. The miles of
noiseless sands seemed vast, as if they were the floors of eternity.
Somehow, the daybreak was like eternity. The idea came over me of that
feeling of acceptance which so entrances the soul just judged and just
admitted into heaven.

To be saved! I said to myself, to be saved!

Then the thoughts of all the things implied in salvation came in one
thought upon me; and I said:

This is the one grand joy of life; and I clapped my hands like a
child, and spoke to God aloud. But then there came many thoughts, all in
one thought, about the nature and manner of our salvation. To be saved
with such a salvation!

This was a grander joy, the second grand joy of life; and I tried to say
some lines of a hymn but the words were choked in my throat. The ebb was
sucking the sea down over the sand quite silently; and the cliffs were
whiter, and more day-like. Then there came many more thoughts all in one
thought, and I stood still without intending it.

To be saved by such a Saviour! This was the grandest joy of all, the
third grand joy of life; and it swallowed up the other joys; and after it
there could be on earth no higher joy.

I said nothing; but I looked at the sinking sea as it reddened in the
morning. Its great heart was throbbing in the calm; and methought I saw
the precious blood of Jesus in heaven, throbbing that hour with real
human love of me.

Yes, murmured Tom Hammond, after all, to be saved by such a Saviour
is a greater, higher, holier thought than the mere knowledge that one is
saved, or of the realization of what that salvation comprises.

In every way that night was one never to be forgotten by Tom Hammond. He
needed, too, all the strength born of his new communion with God to meet
what awaited him with the coming of the new days daily papers.

The paper whom whose staff he had been practically dismissed in our first
chapter (the editor of which was his bitterest enemy) had found how to
use the glass stiletto.

Some of the most scurrilous paragraphs ever penned appeared in his
enemys columns that morning. It is true that the identity of the man
slandered (Tom Hammond) was veiled, but so thinlyso devilishlythat
every journalist, and a myriad other readers, would know against whom the
scurrilous utterances were hurled.

Tom Hammond would not have been human if the reading of the paragraphs
had not hurt him. And he would not have been partaker of the Divine
nature, as he now was, if he had not found a balm in the committal of
his soreness to God.

That is the work of that fellow Joyce, he told himself.

Twenty-four hours before, if this utterance had had to have been made by
him, he would have said,

That beast Joyce! But already, as a young soldier of Christ, the
promised watch was set upon his lips. In the strength of the two great
loves that had come into his lifethe love of Christ and the love of
Zillah Robartthe scurrilous paragraphs affected him comparatively
little.

When he had skimmed the papers, attended to his correspondence, and to
one or two other special items, he took pen and paper and began to write
to his betrothed.

His pen flew over the smooth surface of the paper, but his thoughts were
even quicker than his pen. His whole being palpitated with love. It was
the love of his highest ideal. The love which he had sometimes dared to
hope might some day be his, but which he had scarcely dared to expect.

The memory of his passing fancy for Madge Finisterre crossed his mind,
once, as he wrote. He paused with the pen poised in his fingers, and
smiled that he should ever have thought it possible that he was beginning
to love her. I liked her, admired her, he mused. I enjoyed her frank,
open friendship, but love herno, no. The word cannot be named in the
same breath as my feeling for Zillah.

He put his pen to the paper again, and poured out all the wealth of
the love of his heart to his beautiful betrothed. When he had finally
finished the letter, he sent it by special messenger to Zillah.

He had not forgotten that Major Hs second meeting was that day. Three
oclock found him again in the hall. This time it was quite full. There
was a new sense of interest, of understanding, present within him as he
entered the place. This time he bowed his head in real prayer.

The preliminary proceedings were almost identically like those of the
previous occasion, except that the hymn sungthough equally new to
Hammondwas different to either of those sung at the first meeting. But,
if anything, he was more struck by the words than he had been with those
of the other hymns.

And how rapturously the people sang:

    Till He come! Oh, let the words
    Linger on the trembling chords;
    Let the little while between
    In their golden light be seen;
    Let us think how heaven and home
    Lie beyond that Till He come!

This time a lady, a returned Chinese missionary, led prayer, and then the
major resumed his subject.

We saw, dear friends, at our last meeting, the grand old
soldier-preacher began, what were some of the prophesied signs of our
Lords second coming and how literally these signs were being fulfilled
in our midst to-day. This afternoon, God willing, and time permitting, I
want us to see how He will come; what will happen to the believer; and
also what effect the expectancy of His coming should have upon us, as
believers.

First of all, how will He come? While Jesus, who had led His disciples
out of the city, was in the act of blessing them, He suddenly rose
before their eyes, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. Have
you ever thought of this fact, beloved, that the cloud itself was a
miracle? Whoever heard of a cloud at that special period of the year, in
Palestine? And I very much doubt if anyone, save the apostles, in all the
country round about, saw that cloud. If you ask me what I think the cloud
was, I should be inclined to refer you to the 24th Psalm, and say that
the cloud was composed of the angel-convoy, who, like a guard of honour,
escorted the Lord back to glory, crying, as they neared the gates of the
celestial city, Lift up your heads, oh, ye gates, and let the King of
Glory come in!

He went away in a cloud. The angels, addressing the amazed disciples
declared to them that He would so come in like manner as ye have seen
Him go.

It may be that to the letter that will be fulfilled, and that our Lords
return for His Church will be in an actual cloud. I think it is probable
it will. Anyway, we know that He will come in the air, for Paul, to
whom was given, by God, the privilege of revealing to His Church the
great mystery of the second coming of our Lord, and who said, in this
connection:

Behold, I show you a mystery: we shall not all sleep, but we shall all
be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, when writing more
explicitly to the church at Thessalonica, said:

For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are
alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which
are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead
in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be
caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air;
and so shall ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with
these words.

Now, beloved, can any words be plainer, simpler, than these of Pauls,
forming, as they do, the climax to all that has gone before in the New
Testament. Jesus had Himself said,

I will come again and receive you unto Myself.

The angels said,

In like manner as ye have seen Him go, He shall come again, and now
Paul amplifies this manner of His coming, while, at the same time, he
emphasizes the fact of that return.

Now let us look, dear friends, at the separate items of that detailed
coming. We have already, more than once, alluded to the secrecy of the
return of our Lord for His people, and people are puzzled over the
language used by Pauls description of the return. The Lord shall come
with a shout. Then the world at large will hear Him coming? No; we think
not. Or, if they hear a sound, they will not understand it.

The Lords voice in His spiritual revelations is never heard save by the
Lords people. But there is the voice of the archangelhow about that?
The same rule applies to that, we think.

There were godly shepherds watching their flocks at night, near
Bethlehem, and there was a whole host of angels singing, but the
Bethlehemites did not hear. No one appears to have heard or seen anything
save the godly shepherds. The same, we believe, applies to the trump,
the call of God.

In this connection it is interesting to note a fact that probably was
in the mind of Paul when he wrote thus to the Thessalonians. The Roman
army used three special trumpet-calls in connection with departurewith
marching.

The first meant, Pull down tents.

The second, Get in array.

The third, Start.

Did Paul, moved by the Holy Ghost, translate these three clarion notes
in the topic of 1 Thess. iv. 16, after this fashion:

1. The Lord Himself.

2. Voice of the archangel.

3. The trump of God.

But leaving that, again I would emphasize this truth, that it is only
the trained ear of the spiritually-awakened soul which ever hears the
call of God. We believe that all Scripture teaches the secrecy as well as
the suddenness of the rapture of the church.

In all the many appearances of the risen, resurrected Lord Jesus, during
the many weeks between the resurrection and the ascension, even though,
on one occasion, at least, He was seen by 500 disciples at once, yet
there is no hint, either in the Word of God or in the records of history
of that time, that Jesus was ever seen by the eye of an unbeliever. And
depend upon it, no eye will see, no ear will hear Him, when He comes
again, save those who are in Christ.

The world seeth Me no more our Lord said, but ye see Me. Him God
raised up the third day, and gave Him to be made manifest, not to all the
people, but unto witnesses that were chosen before God, even to us who
did eat and drink with Him after He rose from the dead.

When the voice of the Father came from heaven, witnessing to Jesus
truth, the people that stood by failed to hear it as a voice, but
exclaimed,It thunders. In the case of Paul on the way to Damascus,
those with him heard nothing understandable.

Enoch was taken secretly. Noah was shut into the ark before the flood
came. Only Israel, at Sinai, and not the surrounding nations, understood
those awful physical manifestations of Gods power. Elijah was taken
secretly. The nation neither saw nor heard anything of it.

When will He come? I do not know; no one knows exactly; but this we do
know, from the Word of Godthat nothing remains to be fulfilled before
He comes. He may come before this meeting closes. Again we know by every
sign of the times that His coming can not now be delayed much longer.

Now to a very important feature as to the truth of the second coming of
the Lord. There are many who argue that such teaching will tend to make
the Christian worker careless of his work, his life, etc. There was never
a more foolish argument advanced.

First take a concrete illustration that gives the flat denial to
itnamely, that the most spiritual-minded workers, at home and abroad,
are those whose hearts (not heads only) are saturated with, not the
doctrine merely, but the expectancy of their Lords near return. Then,
too, every such worker finds an incentive to redoubled service in the
remembrance that every soul saved through their instrumentality brings
the Lords return nearerhasting His comingsince, when the last unit
composing His Church has been gathered in, He will come.

Scripture, dear friends, is most plain, most emphatic, in its statements
that the effect of living in momentary expectancy of our Lords return
touches the spiritual life and service at every point. We know, wrote
John, that when He shall appear we shall be like Him, for we shall see
Him as He is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself,
even as He is pure. That, beloved, is the general statement. Now let us
look at some of the separate particular statements.

Writing to the Philippians, Paul connects heavenly mindedness with the
return of the Lord for His Church saying, For our conversationour
manner of living, our citizenshipis in heaven; from whence also we
look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ. To the Colossians the
great apostle showed how the coming of the Lord was to be the incentive
to mortification of self. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear,
then shall ye also appear with Him in glory. Mortify, therefore, your
members which are upon the earth, etc. James taught that the real cure
for impatience was this dwelling in the hope and expectancy of our Lords
coming again. Be ye also patient, he wrote; stablish your hearts; for
the coming of the Lord draweth nigh! We live in an age which is cursed
with impatiencechildren, young men and women, parents, business people,
domestic people, pastors, Christian workers, Sunday-school teachers, all
alike have their spiritual lives and their work marred by impatience. A
real, moment-by-moment heart-apprehension of the possible coming of Jesus
in the next moment of time, is the only real cure for this universal
impatience in the Christian Church.

Then take another great sin in the Church, belovedcensoriousness. Oh,
the damage it does to the one who indulges in it, and the suffering it
causes to the one who is the victim of it. But here, again, a full,
a constant realization of the near coming of our Lord will check
censoriousness. Writing to the Corinthians, in his first epistle, Paul
says, Therefore, judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who
both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and make manifest
the counsels of the hearts.

The great quickener, too, of Christian diligence is to be found in the
coming of the Lord. Peter writes to us saying, But the day of the Lord
will come as a thief in the night, ... seeing then that these things
shall be, ... what manner of persons ought we to be in all holy living
and godliness; looking for and hasting the coming.... Wherefore, beloved,
seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of
Him in peace, without spot, and blameless.

May I say, too, in all gentleness and love, that it has seemed to me,
for years, that the missing link in nearly all holiness preaching (so
called) is this much-neglected expectancy of our Lords return. Paul
connects holiness and the second coming of Christ, in his first epistle
to the Thessalonians, saying, The God of peace sanctify you wholly; and
I pray God your spirit, soul and body be preserved blameless unto the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The scoff of the world, dear friends, against us, as Christians, is that
the professed bond of love is absent from our life. And here again Gods
Word shows us that a real living in expectancy of our Lords return would
teach us to love one another. In that same epistle I have just quoted,
Paul says, The Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward
another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you: to the end He may
stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father,
at the coming of our Lord with all His saints.

I have only time, this afternoon, for but one more of these references,
and that is a very elementary though a very essential one. Paul, in that
same epistle, teaches that to be saved means that we are saved to serve.
Ye turned to God, he says, to serve ... and to wait for His Son from
heaven.

I must close, friends. But before I do, do let me beseech every
Christian here this afternoon to go aside with God, and with His plain,
unadulterated Word. Assure yourself that Jesus is coming again, that He
is coming soon, and that you are so living that you shall not be ashamed
at His coming. Should He tarry till Thursday next, and He is willing to
suffer me to meet you here again, we will continue this great subject on
the line of the three judgments. Let us close our meeting by singing hymn
number 308.

Like one in a strange, delicious dream, Tom Hammond rose with the others
and sang:

    Jesus is coming! Sing the glad word!
    Coming for those He redeemed by His blood,
    Coming to reign as the glorified Lord!
            Jesus is coming again!

As he left the hall, and thought, How Zillah would have enjoyed, how she
would have been helped, by this meeting! he muttered.

How senseless of me not to have told her of it when I wrote this
morning.

He smiled a little to himself as he murmured:

May I take this bit of remissness as a sign that the Divine love was
predominant within me, rather than the human? Or was it that I am not yet
sufficiently taught in the school of human love?




CHAPTER XIXa.

MY MENTOR.


It was about the hour that Tom Hammond entered the Hall to listen to the
Majors second address. Cohen, the Jew, was in his workshop, his brain
busy with many problems, while his hands wrought out that wondrous Temple
work.

The door opened, quietly, and Zillah entered. She often came for a
talk with him at this hour, as she was mostly sure of an uninterrupted
conversation. Her sister, to a large extent, lived to eat, and always
slept for a couple hours or more after her hearty two oclock dinner.

The young Jew gave the beautiful girl a pleasant greeting. Then, after
the exchange of a few very general words, the pair were silent. Zillah
broke the silence at last.

Abraham, she began, I want to talk to you ononwellIve something
important to say.

He eyed her curiously, a tender little smile moving about among the lines
of his mouth. There was a new note in her voice, a new light in her eyes.
He had caught glimpses of both when they had met at breakfast, and again
at dinner, but both were more marked than ever now.

He had laid down his tool at her first word of address. Now she laid one
of her pretty plump hands on his, as she went on:

You could not have been kinder, truer, dear Abraham, if you had been my
own brother, _after the flesh_. I have looked upon you _as_ a brother, as
a friend, as a protector, and I have always felt that I could, and would
make a confidant of you, should the needs-be ever arise.

The gentle smile in his eyes as well as his mouth encouraged her, and she
went on:

A gentleman has asked me to marry him, Abraham

Cohen gave a quick little start, but in her eagerness she did not notice
it.

I have promised, she continued, for I love him, and he loves me as
only

Who is he, Zillah?

Mr. Hammond, dear!

His eyes flashed with the mildest surprise. But, to her astonishment, she
noticed that he showed no anger.

In spite of all his usual gentleness she had half expected a little
outburst, for to marry _out_ of the Jewish faith, was equal in shame
almost to turning Meshumed, and usually brought down the curse of ones
nearest and dearest.

He is of the Gentile race, Zillah! Cohen said quietly.

She noticed that he said _race_, and not _faith_, and she unconsciously
took courage from the fact.

She was silent for a moment. Her lips moved slightly, but no sound came
from her. Watching her, he wondered. She was praying!

Suddenly she lifted her head, proudly almost. She suffered her great
lustrous eyes,liquid in their love-lightto meet his, as she said, with
a ringing frankness:

Abraham! I have found the Messiah! He whom the Gentiles call the Christ;
The man-God, Jesus, _is_ the Messiah!

His eyes dwelt fixedly upon her face. She wondered that there was neither
anger nor indignation in them.

May I tell you why I think, why I _know_ He is the Messiah, Abraham?
she asked.

Do, Zillah!

He spoke very gently, and she wondered more and more. She made no remark,
however, on his toleration, but began to pour out her soul in the words
of the Old Testament scriptures, connecting them with their fulfillment
in the New Testament.

Cohen, watching her, thought of Deborah, for all her beautiful form
seemed suddenly ennobled under the power of the theme that fired her.

Now I know, dear Abraham, she presently cried, How it is that Jehovah
is allowing our Rabbisyou told me, you know, the other day, of the one
at Safedto be led to dates that prove that Messiah is coming soon? _Now_
I know why God has allowed our nation to be stirred up,the Zionist
movement, the colonization of Jerusalem and its neighbourhood, and all
else of this likeyes, it is because the Christ _is_ coming.

Only, dear brother, it is not as the Messiah of the Jews that He comes
soonHe came thus more than 1,900 years agothis time, when He comes, He
will come for His church, His redeemed onesJew and Gentile alike who
are washed in His blood that was shed on Calvary for all the human race.
For He was surely _Gods_ Lamb, and was slain at the Great, the last real
Passover, dear Abraham, if only we allour racecould see this. What the
blood of that first Passover lamb, in Egypt, was in type, to our people
in their bondage and Blood-deliverance, so Jesus was in reality.

Moses, of old, wist not how his face shone. And this lovely Jewish
maiden, as she talked of her Lord, wist not how all her lovely face
was transformed as she talked_glorified_ would not be too strong a
description of the change her theme had wrought in her countenance.

And now, dear Abraham, she went on, that same Jesus has not only
blotted out all my sin, for His names sake, but he bids me look for
Him to come again. When _next_ He comesit may be before even this day
closes

Cohen shot a quick, puzzled glance at her. She did not notice it but went
on:

I have learned many things from the scriptures since I have been going
to the little Room at Spitalfields, and from the _Word_ of Jehovah,
Himself, I have learned that Jesus may now come at any moment.

He will come _in the air_, and will catch away all His believing
children. Then, as the teachers show from the _Word_ of God, when the
church is gone, there shall arise a terrible power, a man who will be
Satans great agent to lead the whole world astray_Anti_christ, the
Word of God calls himthen, during a period, probably about seven years
altogether, there shall be an ever growing persecution of those who shall
witness boldly for Jesus, and

_Who_ will _they_ be, Zillah, he interrupted, if all the Church, as
you say, will be taken out of the world at the coming of Christ?

One of the teachers, the other night, Abraham, she replied, said, that
the natural consequence of the sudden taking away of the Believers from
this earth would probably be, at first, a mighty revival, a turning to
God. If this be so, then these converts will be the witnesses to Jesus
during the awful seven years, which the Word of God calls The Great
Tribulation.

Then too, one of the teachers at the Room said, it is possible that
not all Christians will be caught up in the air at the coming again of
Jesus, but _only_ those faithful ones who are found watching, expecting
His coming. If that be soand no one dare dogmatise about so sacred and
solemn a thingthen there will be thousands of Christians left behind who
will have to pass through the awful time of Antichrists Tribulation.

Her face glowed with holy light, as inspired by the thought in her soul,
she went on:

At first, dear Abraham, our own race will return to Jerusalem, and to
all the land of our Father, still believing in the coming of the Messiah.
The templethat wondrous Temple for which you are workingwill be reared
to Jehovah. The morning and evening sacrifices will be resumed. Then
presently the Antichrist will make our people believe that he is the
Messiah. Pretending to be Israels friend and protector he will deceive
them at first, but, by and by, he will try to force idolatry upon them,
he will want to set up in our glorious Temple, (which will have been
reared to Jehovah,) an idol, an abomination.

The teacher whom I have heard, Abraham,and many of them are of our own
racesee from scripture that the great mass of our people, in the land of
our fathers, will blindly accept this hideous idol worship.

But Jehovah will not let Antichrist have all his own way. Jesus, with
all those who were caught up with Him into the air, will come to the
deliverance of our people. He will come, _this_ time, to the earth. He
will fight against Antichrist, will overcome him, His feet shall stand on
the Mount of Olives.

Our poor deluded, suffering people will see Him, as our own prophets
have said:_I will pour out upon the House of David and upon the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication, AND
THEY SHALL LOOK UPON ME WHOM THEY HAVE PIERCED, AND THEY SHALL MOURN FOR
HIM, as one mourneth for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for
Him, as one that is in bitterness for his first-born_.

She paused abruptly, struck by Cohens quietude of manner, where she had
expected a storm. Gazing up wonderingly into his face she cried:

Abraham, why are you thus quiet? Why have you not cursed me for a
Meshumed, dear? Can it be that you, too, know aught of these glorious
truths?

There was sadness and kindness in his eyes as he returned her pleading
glance. But there was no trace of anger.

I wonder why, little sister, he began, I am not angry, as the men of
Israels faith usually are with a Meshumed, even though the defaulter
should be as beautiful as Zillah Robart?

His glance grew kinder, as he went on:I began to wonder where my
little sister went, twice a week, in the evenings, and, anxious about
her, lest she, in her innocence of heart and ignorance of life, should
get into trouble, I followed her one night, and saw that she entered a
hall, which I knew to be a preaching-place for Jews.

Zillahs eyes were very wide with wonder. But she did not interrupt him.

I did not enter the place myself, he went on, but that very first
night, while waiting about for a few minutes, I met an old friend, a
Jew like myself, by _race_, but a Christian by faith. He talked with
me, pointed to _our_ scriptures, quoted from the Gentile New Testament,
showed, from them, how, in every detail, the birth, the life, the death
of Jesus, the Nazarene, fulfilled the prophecies of our father, and

And you, Abraham Zillah laid her hand on the Jews wrist, in a swift
gesture of excitement, you, dear, she cried, see that Jesus was the
Messiah?

Slowly, almost sorrowfully it seemed to the eager girl, he shook his head.

I cannot say all that, Zillah, he went on, I sat in a seat, last
night, in that Hall, where I could see you and Hammond, where I could
hear all that was said upon the platform, but where I knew that neither
you nor Hammond would be able to see me. All that I heard, last night,
dear, has more than half convinced me, butwell, I cannot rush through
this matter, I have to remember that it has to do with the life beyond,
as well as this life.

He sighed a little wearily.

I saw the meeting between Hammond and you, Zillah, he went on. I had
before begun to scent something of Hammonds probable feeling for you,
and I had seen you look at him in a way that, though you did not yourself
probably realize it, meant, I knew, a growing feeling for him warmer
than our maidens usually bestow on a Gentile. I saw you enter the cab
together, and drive off, and

He sighed again. Then without finishing his sentence, he said:

Perhaps I shall see with you, Zillah, soon. Meanwhile, dear

He lifted his hands, let them rest upon her head, and softly, reverently,
cried:

The Lord bless thee and keep thee; the Lord make his face shine upon
thee, and be gracious unto thee; the Lord lift up His countenance upon
thee, and give thee peace.

The sweet old Nazarite blessing never fell more tenderly upon human ears
than it did upon Zillah Robart. Jehovah _had_ been very gracious to her.
She had feared anger, indignation from her brother-in-law, she received
blessing instead.

As he slowly lifted his hands from her head, she caught them in hers,
lifted them to her lips, and kissed them gratefully.

May that blessing fall back upon your own head, upon your heart, your
life, dear Abraham? she cried.

Still holding his hands, she lifted her head. An eager light filled all
her face, as she added:

It wants but a few days to Passover, dear, I shall pray God that He
will reveal Jesus fully to you before that!

She dropped his hands, and made for the door. I hear the children from
school, she cried. Then she was gone.

Cohen did not turn to his work. But taking a New Testament from his
pocket, began to study anew the Passion of Jesus, as recorded in the
Gospels.




CHAPTER XX.

THE PLACARD.


Riding back to his office from that meeting Tom Hammond asked
himself:Ought I to begin to make this near Return of our Lord for His
church, the subject of my Prophets Chamber Column for to-morrows
issue?

I must seek special guidance about this, he presently decided.

The cab was nearing the office when he suddenly murmured:HE might come
_to-day_!

Even as he murmured the words his eyes seemed to see a striking way of
exhibiting his new-found faith in the Return of his Lord, and he came to
a rapid decision.

Lifting the flap in the roof of the cab, he told the driver to go on to
a certain Sign and Ticket writers. Arrived at the place, he explained
to the writer that he wanted a card three feet six inches long,
proportionate in width, very _boldly_, handsomely written with just the
two words upon it, in the order of his sketch.

He had taken an odd piece of card from the mans scrap heap, and with his
pencil he drew out his idea, thus:

                              +------------+
                              |   TO-DAY?  |
                              |  PERHAPS!  |
                              +------------+

How soon can I have it? he asked.

In a couple of hours, sir!

Pack it carefully and I will send a messenger for it!

Hammond was turning from the counter, when the man said:

I beg your pardon, sir, but if it is not too bold a question, may I ask
what the two words mean?

They mean, smiled Tom Hammond, that Jesus Christ, Gods son, may come
suddenly to-day, before even you have time to finish the work upon my
order!

The mans face wore a puzzled look. Then suddenly it brightened a little,
as he said:

Ah! I sees, its somethink religious. That aint in my line, not a bit,
sir. I aint built that way. Now, my misses is! Shes the best wife a man
ever had, I cant find a speck o fault wi her, but, there it is, yer
know, shes gone, fair gone, sir, on religious things!

Do you love her? Would you like to lose her? asked Hammond.

Like to lose her, sir? why, no, sir! I believes I shouldI shouldwell I
dont know what I should do, if she wur took!

There was a note of deep gravity in Tom Hammonds voice, as he said:

Then let that motto warn you, as you prepare to write it, that even
before you can finish it, the Christ who is to come again, who _will_
surely come now very soon, may come. Then, when you go to look for your
wife, when you are perhaps expecting her to call you to your tea, she
will be missing. You will call her, search for her, yet never find her.
Because, if she is a true child of God, she, with all _true_ Christians,
will have been snatched away unseen from the world, caught up to meet
their Lord in the air.

Good gracious, sir! yer give me the creeps! gasped the man.

Seek ye the Lordyour good wifes Lord,while He may be found, my
friend. With this parting word Tom Hammond left the shop.

Two hours and a half later the splendid bit of sign writing hung upon the
wall of Hammonds room.

It was a most striking placard. The first letter of each word nearly
eight inches in length, and in brilliant crimson, the other letters six
inches long in deep, purple black.

As he sat back and regarded it where it hung, Tom Hammond mused on all
that he had heard that afternoon, of the effects upon the lives of those
who possessed a real heart apprehension of the truth of the near Return
of the Lord.

One can scarcely conceive, he murmured, what London, what all the
civilized, and so-called Christian world, would be like, if every man
and woman, who _professes_ to be a christian, lived in the light of the
truth that the Lords return was near, was imminent. Every man (he was
recalling the truth quoted that afternoon), _Who hath this Hope in him,
purifieth himself even as He (Jesus) is pure._

The rest of the day was a busy one. Many callers came in. Everyone
noticed the strange placard. Some asked what it meant. Modestly, but with
strong purpose, and with perfect frankness, Hammond told each and all who
enquired, of his change of heart, and how possessed with the fact that
Christs return was imminent, he had had the placard done for his own,
and for others quickening and reminder.

People smiled indulgently, but entered into no argument with him. He was
too important a man for that, and, equally, they dare not _pooh-pooh_ his
testimony, wild as it appeared to most, if not all of them.




CHAPTER XXI.

WAS HE MAD?


Madge, a wife of barely eighteen hours, found her husbands church packed
in every nook and corner when she entered it on the Sunday morning.

The news of her sudden return, and equally sudden marriage, had helped to
fill the church, though the knowledge that the Rev. Doig was to preach
would, in itself, have been sufficient to have gathered an unusually
large congregation.

During the pastors sickness the pulpit had been supplied by various good
men, secured by the deacons from all over the county. Doig had preached
twice before, and was already a great favourite with the people.

The pastor had not been well enough to be present at any service for many
weeks, and as he entered the church this morning, leaning heavily upon
his wifes arm, he received quite an ovation from the people.

In spite of the curiosity and excitement over Madges appearance, the
congregation speedily settled down to quiet worship. There was something
subducing, quieting in the preachers manner. Just before the address,
the people sang:

    Lo! God is here! let us adore,
      And own how dreadful is this place!
    Let all within us feel His power,
      And silent bow before His face;
    Who know His power, His grace who prove,
    Serve Him with awe, with reverence, love.

With the singing of this hymn a deep, deep solemnity came down upon the
assembly. It deepened as the preacher unfolded the wonders of the Bible
revelation relating to the Lords second coming.

Madge forgot her husband, as, absorbed by the wonder of the revelation,
she drank in the glorious truth. Had she been more alert in watching the
pastor, she would have seen how restless he grew! How angrily his eyes
flashed! How scowling his beetling brows became.

Some of the people noticed their pastors evident displeasure, and so did
one or two of the deacons. But no one dreamed that he would dare to utter
any dissent to the service.

Was he mad? Perhaps he was, for the time, as many men and women become,
who nurse a groundless, senseless anger and jealousy! He was jealous of
this mans hold upon the people. He had not dreamed that any man could
hold his congregation, as this man was holding them. He was angry, too,
at the doctrine preached.

With a startling suddenness he leaped to his feet, forgetting his
weakness, as he cried:

I will not have that lying, senseless nonsenseworse than
nonsensepreached in _my_ church, Mr. Doig. You will either announce
another text, and take a different subject, sir, or you must cease to
preach!

A slight flush rose into the cheeks of the preacher, as he half turned to
the pastor, and in low, but firm voice, heard everywhere amid the sudden
strained silence, he said:

Dear Pastor, if you insist, (you have the _legal_ right to do so, as
_pastor_ of this church, I suppose) I will desist. But I cannot, if I
preach on, do other than declare all that God would have me do. Why,
even as we are here, our Loving Lord may come, and if I faltered in my
testimony I should have to meet Him ashamedlyand

Rot! muttered the pastor. The word was heard by everyone, and a murmur
of strong dissent ran through the place.

With a white angry face, and flashing savage eyes, the Pastor walked
to the table, and leant upon it heavily in his weakness, as he cried
hoarsely, This service is now concluded. While I hold the pastorate, no
such sentimental rubbish, as Mr. Doig seems bent upon giving us, shall be
voiced from this platform.

One of the deacons protested. The pastor was firm. Passion had rendered
him temporarily irresponsible. Another of the deacons, who had been
conferring with Doigwho had whispered the facts of the pastors evident
temporary irresponsibilitynow urged the people to disperse quietly.

Doig walked down to his host, and whispered, if I go at once, it will
help matters. The pair then left the church. The congregation followed
quickly. The deacons remained behind to confer together over the
situation, which was of a hitherto unheard of character.

       *       *       *       *       *

The pastor had left by the side door, and leaning more heavily than ever
upon Madge, they made their way to the house of Thaddeus Finisterre,
Madges father. They were staying there. They took a private way,
by which they were spared the unpleasantness of meeting any of the
congregation.

Four minutes took them to the house. Neither of them spoke during the
brief journey. For the first time in her life Madge knew what it was
to feel the touch of fear. She had married the man by her side knowing
comparatively little of his real character and temperament.

There may be insanity in his family, she mused, as she walked by his
side. She had already told herself that nothing but a temporary touch of
madness could have led to his outburst in the church.

Arrived at the house, the pastor went straight to his room, this gave
Madge an opportunity to confer with her father and mother a moment.

His long anxious illness has unsettled his brain a little! the mother
said. The best thing will be to take no notice, let us all be as
cheerful, as much like our ordinary selves, as we can. Then, if we can
persuade him to go away to-morrow, I guess the best thing for you to do,
Madge, will be to get a good doctor to examine him, and to prescribe for
him.

The dinner-meal which followed, presently, was fairly free of constraint.
After dinner Mr. and Mrs. Finisterre slipped away and left the husband
and wife to themselves.

Almost immediately the pair were left, the pastor began to abuse the
preacher of the morning, and to denounce the teaching of the Lords
second coming.

But, my dear, cried Madge, it is evidently almost the most prominent
doctrine in the New Testament. There are more direct references to it in
the New Testament, Mr. Doig said, than to any other revealed doctrine.

But its not _my_ doctrine, snapped the pastor, not the doctrine of
_our_ church. It was scoffed at at our college, when _I_ was a student,
andand

Madge gazed wonderingly at him. His argument seemed so puerile, if not
actually sinful.

But, she cried, I dont see how that argument holds. To me, it
sounds like blasphemy, almost, to say _I_, as a _minister_, and _we_
as a _church_, will not preach the most prominent doctrine of the New
Testament, because of the foolish abuse of the teaching by here and there
a wild visionary who lets his fancy and whim run away with his judgment.
Suppose, dear Homer, some church or minister should say, We wont preach
the doctrine of the Atonement, would that save them from the charge of
blasphemy, when God says:

If any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy,
God shall take away his part out of the Book of Life, and out of the Holy
City, and from the things which are written in his Book.

The pastor gazed at her in amazement. Her fashion of putting the matter
gave him small opportunity of replying, so he took refuge in the coarse
sneer:

Have you turned _Doigite_?

With a quick flush in her cheeks, and sudden flashing of eye, Madge
replied:

If by that you mean, do I see, and have I accepted the revelation of
the Word of God, as to the near coming of Christ, then I say _yes_. I
am _not_ a Doigite, but I am, thank God, a Christian! A very young one,
a very poor and inexperienced one, tis true, but still I am one, and am
desirous to live to the Lord to whom I have given myself, and, after all
I heard from the preacher this morning, I am more than ever determined to
serve Christ wholly, and I can quite see how this wondrous _fact_ of the
near Return of our Lord will be a new and mighty force to revolutionize
all my life.

An ugly snarl curled the lips of the amazed, discomfited pastor, and he
was just beginning a cruel little speech, when one of the Deacons was
announced.

Madge left the two men alone. As she passed on to her own room there was
a terrible pain at her heart, for the hideous thought came to her:Can
Homer be truly converted? If he is, how can it be that he flatly refuses
to believe what God has so plainly revealed?




CHAPTER XXII.

FROM THE PROPHETS CHAMBER.


Tom Hammond was alone in his editorial office. He had come to the day,
the moment at last, when he felt constrained to write out of his full
heart, to the readers of his paper, all that he yearned that the world
should know of the imminence of the Return of the Lord.

Before he put pen to paper to write on this supreme theme in his
Prophets Chamber column, he bowed his head on his desk and prayed for
guidance and help. Then he began to write out his heart fully, telling
first of his conversion, and of the wondrous meetings conducted by Major
H.

His whole being was fired with holy purpose. Had ever a preacher such a
pulpit as has the editor of The Courier? he wrote. Had any preacher
ever so mighty a privilege, so great a responsibility as is mine to-day?
This paper circulates through more than a million peoples hands, even
allowing that only the one person purchasing the paper, reads itthough
one might almost safely double that million, since there are very few of
the papers which will not be read by _two_, or more persons.

This Prophets Column will likely overflow all its ordinary banks, as
does the Great Nile in its season, but if my overflowing but carry life
on its tide, as does the tide of the overflowing Nile, then, all will be
well.

As a converted Editor of a great daily, I have put my hand, my pen, my
mind into the mighty, unerring hand of God, praying that I may write
only that which will reach the _hearts_ of my readers. And the question
comes to me, what word does London, does England most need to-day?

Thisthat all the world should know, and realize, that any day, aye, any
hour, Christ may returnnot to the earth but _into the air_

Here followed the teaching of the Gospel and Epistles, as he had learned
it from Major H, and from his own subsequent personal study of the Word
of God.

I appeal to the most thoughtful of my readers, I appeal to the
unthinking, as I say, do you not see how a real belief, in this near
coming of Christ would revolutionize all our national, commercial,
domestic, and church life. How, too, it would immediately settle every
social problem.

If our legislators, sitting in council at St. Stephens, realized that
before the present Parliamentary session could end in the ordinary way,
that Christ might come, what a speedy end they would seek to put to every
national iniquity.

The hideous drink traffic would be swept, root and branch, from our
land. And, in sweeping that curse away, the awful problem of the
unemployed, the homeless, the starving, all that inures to our national
poverty would be swept away.

The shameful opium traffic with China; the national Greed for territory;
the Traffic in White Slaves; and every other national iniquity would be
abolished.

Christian churches, (so-called) would become worthy of the name
_Christian_. All those bits of devilish device used to extract, and
extort money from the pockets of the people would end, as by magic.
Theatricals would be left to the theatres; nigger entertainments would
be left to the music-halls; the church would leave all these things to
their master_the Devil_.

In _social_ life, people would pay their debts; the wild, mad, sinful
extravagance that marks the life of to-day, would cease. Christians
would love one another. Every Evangelical denomination would be
_inter_-denominational in the truest sense, and be _one_ wholly in their
Crucified, Risen, coming Lord. A love for the poor fallen world, such
as has never been since our Lord spent Himself in service, would be the
order of the day, and not the vision of a few. Every missionary society
would have more men and women and money than they actually needed.

But, even as I pen this millennium-like picture, I know, from the Word
of God, that it _cannot_ be _before_ Christ comes. But I seek to arouse
every _Christian_ to Gods call to them on this matter. You, who profess
to be Christs, dare not refuse this truth, save at the peril of losing
the _Crown_ of Life.

The vast bulk of the churches, I know, preach, that the world will
continually improve until the earth shall be fit for Christ to come
and reign. But I defy any cleric or layman to show me a single word
of scripture that gives the faintest colour to that belief, or
statementunless the person wrests the passage so advanced from its
distinctly marked _dispensational_ setting.

Things (spiritual) are growing worse and worse. There is a wholesale
down-gradeism, too awful to contemplate. Priest and people have erred
alike! I take up the official organ of a section of the church that
has ever been regarded as the most out-an-out, in all that pertains to
Evangelical truth, and I find its great head saying The Bible is _not_
the sole spiritual guide for the christian, for, practically, the Bible
is a _dead_ book!

The chief leader-writer of that same paperhimself usually regarded
as the soundest of Believers, the most trenchant of all Evangelical
preachers, writes in one of a series of articles, That the so-called
_Finished work_ of Christ, is a doctrine not to be found in scripture,
and glories in the fact that _we_ never have, and, I trust, we never
shall, preach this doctrine.

All this but proves the truth of the New Testament prophecies,
_Perilous_ times shall come, Evil men and seducers shall wax worse
and worse, _deceiving_, and _being deceived_. If only we could all be
induced to read the signs of the times in the light of scripture! we
should then realize that we were in the thickest darkness of the worlds
blackest night, the darkness immediately preceding the dawn, and we
should be looking for the Morning Star.

Here, writing with swift, eager pen, he went over the ground covered by
Major H, as regarded the signs of the coming of the Lordthe movement
among the Jews; their excitement, as a race, over the date discovery
5,666; the preparations for the rebuilding of the Temple. Then the
increased effort in the Foreign Mission fields. The growth of the spirit
of lawlessness in the world, and in the church. The multiplicity of
spiritualistic devices_doctrine of Devils_. The awakening of all real,
true, spiritually-minded Bible _students_ to the fact of Christs near
Return. And the great, but often disregarded sign, the scoffers who
shall say where is the promise of His coming? for, since the Fathers fell
asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation.

But He _will_ come! He is near at hand! Every sign of the times
proclaims this! It is NIGHT, now, and He will come as a thief in the
night. At any moment now we may look for Him. Before this news-sheet,
damp from the press, is in the hands of my readers, Christ _may_ have
come and taken away _every one_ of His own Believing people_I_ shall be
missing, another here, and another there will be missing.

And when a puzzled, troubled London shall be gathering in business,
that saying shall have come to pass, _The one shall be taken, the other
left!_ (For though this word is _primarily Jewish_ in its application,
it will yet have a measure of meaning for the world, when the Church is
taken away).

May every _Christian_ be ready to meet His Lord, when He shall come, and
every unready, unsaved soul who reads these Prophets Chamber columns,
seek the face of God through faith in the Atoning work of Jesus Christ.
For, believe me, His Return is very near, to some of us the sound of His
footfalls is even now in our ears.

He bent his head over the written sheets, praying God to bless the
message. Then an interruption came. A knock at the door, and his sub,
Ralph Bastin entered.




CHAPTER XXIII.

PASSOVER!


Cohen, the Jew, blew out the candle, and set the stand aside. The knees
of his trousers were pressed and dusty. He had just been over the whole
house, lighted candle in hand, and had searched every nook and crannie,
every cupboard, every shelf, under the edge of every carpet, looking
for the faintest sign of leaven in the form of bread, cake, or biscuit
crumb. He had found nothing, and went to his room to bathe and change his
clothing.

What of you, Zillah? he had asked the lovely girl, earlier in the day.
With your newly-espoused faith in the Nazarene, shall you partake of the
lamb with us?

Certainly, I will, she replied, _only_ I shall take the meal more in
the spirit of the Lords Supper, of the Christian Church. And Abraham

Her eyes, as they were lifted to his, swam with tender, pitying tears, as
she added:

All the time I shall be praying that you may meet the Christ of
God, Jesus of Nazareth; and while you seek to remember our peoples
deliverance from the land of Bondage, I shall be praying that you, dear
Abram, may be delivered from the bondage of the legalism of our race.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Passover table was spread in Cohens house. The arrangement of that
table was a curious mixture of Mosaic and Rabbinical command. In the
case of all but really very pious Jews of this day, the real and actual
Passover is not kept.

Passover(_chag Appesach_ of the Jews) _must_ have a lamb roasted to make
it the _real_ feast, the ordinary Jew to-day, contents himself with an
egg, and a burnt shank-bone of mutton, and unleavened cakes.

Cohens Passover Feast always included a small lamb. Still, Rabbinical
lore and Bible command were curiously mixed in the Cohen celebration.

The table, to-night, had an egg according to Rabbinical order, but there
was a tiny roast lamb as well. There was the glass dish of bitter herbs;
the salt water, typifying the tears of Israelitish misery in Egypt; a
dish of almonds, apples, and other fruit, chopped and mixed, represented
the lime and mortar of the Brick-making in the Land of Bondage.

Chervil and parsley were there, and lettuce. A large pile of unleavened
cakes, a big coloured glass ewer with unfermented wine and water, and
many other items considered to be the orthodox thing at the Feast.

All the Cohen household was there. Zillah, radiant with the glow of the
new life in Christ that had come to her.

Rachel, her sister, was red-eyed and sullen. Zillah had been pleading
with her to open her mind, and her heart to the Christian teaching of
the Messiah who had come, and who had atoned for _all_ the race, Jew and
Gentile alike.

Angry and sullen, the wife had said hard things of Zillah. Her frivolous,
irresponsible nature was more than satisfied with the barest _form_ of
the faith of her race.

The two children were full of suppressed excitement, the elderthe
boyespecially.

Cohen, the head of the house, was singularly quiet and grave. His eyes
had a far-away look in them. He looked like a man moving in a trance.

Presently the boy, (he had been carefully coached) asked, according to
the usual formula:

What mean ye, father, by this Service?

Cohens eyes stared over the head of his son, and in a voice very unlike
its usual tones, replied:

_It is the Sacrifice of Jehovahs Passover, who halted by the
blood-sprinkled houses of our fathers in Egypt, that the destroying angel
should come not nigh, when He smote the Egyptians, but preserved our
fathers._

Will our people _ever_ do this, father? queried the boy.

Till Messiah come, they will, dear son. The strained gaze of Cohen, as
he answered, was as though he was trying to pierce Times veil, and see
the coming Messiah approaching.

_When_ will Messiah come, father? continued the boy.

_To-night_, perhaps, my son. Set His chair! Open the door!

Swiftly, but with remarkable quietude, for a child, the boy placed a
chair at the table, then, stepping briskly, silently to the door, he set
it wide open, and left it thus, and returned to his place by the table.

Rachel took the ewer and poured out a little wine and water into each
glass. In her sullenness, as she came to Zillahs glass, she slopped the
wine over the edge. The children glanced curiously from the spilled wine
to the face of their aunt, then at their fathers face.

Zillahs face flushed; Cohens grew pale, and set in a sharp spasm of
pain. No word was said, each took up their glass, and drank the _first_
cup of blessing.

There was a moments pause, then Cohen spread his hands, bowed his head,
and repeated The Blessing:

_The Lord bless us and keep us; the Lord make His face shine upon us and
be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon
us and give us peace._

Under her breath, yet distinctly heard by Cohen, in the solemn hush that
followed the Blessing, Zillah murmured:

_But now, in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were afar off, are made nigh
by the blood of Christ._ FOR HE IS OUR PEACE.

Cohen glanced quietly at her. She met the glance with one of intense
yearning. He translated it rightly, as meaning If _only_ you could see
this truth?

There were two bowls of water set on a side-board. Cohen and his wife
rinsed their hands in one bowl, Zillah and the two children in the other.

Addressing himself to his son, more than to the others, Cohen, when they
had returned to the table, as the head of the house was instructed to do,
explained why they sat at the Feast:

Our Fathers, when they took the Feast for the _first_ time in Egypt, my
son, took it _standing_, with their loins girt, and their staff in hand,
for _they_ were starting on that great journey that eventually lasted
forty years. But we, their descendants, eat the feast to-day, _sitting_
at our ease, as a symbol that our people have been delivered from the
cruel bondage.

Then the _first_ Hallel was repeated.Psalms 113, and 114. The _second_
cup of Blessing was taken by each. Then Cohen asked a Blessing on _each_
kind of food on the table. Then he carved a portion of lamb for each one,
they took their seats, and the meal began.

The children were excused from eating the stinging bitter herbs. But
Cohen, Rachel, and Zillah, each took a little with their lamb and
unleavened bread.

Conversation became fairly general over the meal, except that Rachels
sullen anger increased, and she kept silent.

At the conclusion of the meal, the _third_ cup of Blessing was drunk, and
Cohen repeated the 115, 116, 117, 118, Psalm. At the close of the Hallel,
the _fourth_, and last cup of Blessing was taken. The Feast was over.

A sudden silence fell upon them all. No one moved, no one spoke, for a
moment. Suddenly Zillah broke the dead silence. She had a glorious voice,
and she let it ring out in that wondrous song:

        Not all the blood of beasts
        On Jewish altars slain
    Could give the guilty conscience peace,
        Or wash away our stain.

No one interrupted. Cohen _could_ not, for the thrall of some strange,
new power was upon him. His wife was furiousbut kept her fury bottled
up. The children were delighted, they loved to hear their aunt sing, and
to the amaze of their father and motherthey joined in the singing, for,
with other children, they had often of late been to the evening meeting
for Jewish children. And Zillah, who had talked with them, believed that
they loved the Christ.

Without a break, the three voices sang on:

        But Christ the Heavenly Lamb,
        Takes all our sins away;
    A sacrifice of nobler name,
        And richer Blood than they.

        My faith would lay her hand
        On that meek head of Thine,
    While as a penitent I stand,
        And here confess my sin.

        My soul looks back to see
        The burden Thou didst bear
    When hanging on the accursed tree,
        And knows her guilt was there.

        Believing we rejoice
        To feel the curse remove;
    We bless the Lamb with cheerful voice,
        And trust His bleeding love.

Again, for full thirty seconds, as the glorious song finished, there was
an absolute silence, save for the ricketting of Rachels chair, as she
moved in pettish anger on her seat.

Zillah had kept her eyes fixed upon Cohens face all the time she was
singing, and had seen a strangely wondrous light slowly gather in his
eyes. She had known, for days, that he was very, very near to the point
of acceptance of Christ. Even as they had gathered at the table of the
Passover, she was not sure, but that in all but profession and testimony,
he was a Christian.

Now he suddenly broke the silence.

Sing the last two verses again, Zillah he said.

        _My_ soul looks back to see
        The burden Thou didst bear
    When hanging on the accursed tree,
        And knows her guilt was there.

Zillahs glorious voice rang out. And now, even to _her_ wonder, Cohens
deeper tones joined hers. Her heart leaped as she noted the emphasis he
put upon the _My_ soul.

She sang on. His voice sang on too. Then came the last verse, and in a
perfect burst of triumph, his voice rang out:

        Believing _I_ rejoice
        To feel the curse remove;
    _I_ bless the Lamb with cheerful voice,
        And trust His bleeding love!

It was a strangely ecstatic moment for Zillah. Tears flooded her eyes,
she tried to speak, but her emotion choked her.

Cohen stood up. His face was ablaze with the wonder of the revelation
that had come to him. He spread his hands upward, and his eyes were
lifted in the same direction, as he cried:

Thou loving Christ! Thou Precious Jesus! I am _Thine_THINETHINE!

Then he remembered his wife.

Rachael, dear heart, he cried, as he moved to her side. Machael, wife
of my heart. Jesus _is_ the Messiah!

Bah! she cried. With a thrust of her hand and foot, she kept him from
her. Then in tones of withering scorn and disgust, she cried:

Mehusmed!

He bent over her very tenderly, stooping to meet her eyes, and trying to
take her hand.

The two children clung to Zillah, and the boy suddenly began to pipe out,
in his clear treble, the hymn so beloved of Jewish children who attend
the mission meetings.

    Come to the Saviour, Make no delay,

Rachael shot a fiercely angry glance in the boys direction, then without
looking at her husband, she thrust at him, to prevent his taking her
hand, as she cried:

Accursed! Mehusmed! Dont touch _me_!

But, Rachael! he began tenderly.

She flung herself sharply round upon him and spat full in his face. Then
she turned sharply from him again.

A full half minute went by. The room grew so eerily still that it
startled her. She turned to gaze where the quartette had been.

The room was empty save for herself!

With a cry she started to her feet. They could not have gone out of the
door for her chair had all the time stood right in the way. What was this
then that had happened?

Her breath came hot and laboured. Her eye-balls bulged horribly! A
reeling sickness began to steal over her. She dropped back, terrified, in
her chair, gasping:

Zillah said this morning The Christ will come _soon, suddenly_, then
those who are His, will be taken, unseen, unheard, from the world!

With a sharp, anguished cry, she let her bulging, terror-filled eyes
sweep the room again as she cried:

And my _children_, too!

Her eyes were tearless, but dry, hard sobs shook all her frame.

The next moment a kind of frenzy seized her. She rushed to the front
door, and into the street. She would find out if any one else was missing.

A little crowd was on the pavement. A hansom cab stood by the curb. The
fare was standing on the front board. He was a minister of some kind. He
wore a M.B. waistcoat, a clerical collar, a soft, wide-brimmed, black
felt hat. He glanced up at the drivers seat, as he cried:

But _some_ one, _surely_, must have seen what became of him. If he fell
off his box in a fit, where is his body?

I seed him one hinstant, cried a voice from the crowd, I wur lookin
straight at im, cos I sed to myself, taint often as yer see a kebby
wear a white at, now-a-days. Then, while I wur starin at im, he sort
o disappeared, the reins fell on the roof o the keb, the oss stopped,
an

Hes gone! shrieked a womans voice.

It was Rachael. Bare-headed, dressed in all her festal finery, she had
just rushed down the steps of the house, and heard the question and
answer as to the disappearance of the hansom driver. The crowd turned and
faced her, her shrill tones had startled them.

Hes gone to Jehovah! she screamed again. My husband, my sister, my
two childrenwe were at Passoverwe

With a piercing shriek she flung up her arms, laughed hideously and fell
in a huddled heap on the bottom step of the flight.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THIS SAYING SHALL COME TO PASS.


Tom Hammond greeted his _sub_ most heartily. Ralph had been away, in
Paris, for a fortnight, partly on business, partly for a change.

As soon as their greetings were exchanged, he turned eagerly to Hammond,
as he said:

But I say, old man, what on earth is all this jargon you wrote me about,
the return of the Christ, and

He paused suddenly. His eyes had just caught sight of the great placard.
His gaze was riveted on it. He read the two words aloud:

TO-DAY? PERHAPS!

In a voice of wondering amaze, he gasped:

Whats _that_, Tom? What _does_ it mean?

Tom Hammond repeated, in a few sentences, what he had previously written
to his friend, as to his conversion, then, passing on to the subject of
the Lords second coming, he said:

I am so impressed, Ralph, with the imminence of our Lords return, that
I have had that placard done to arrest the attention of callers upon
me, and give me an opportunity of speaking to them about their eternal
destiny. To-day, too, I have been impressed so with the necessity of
speaking to the worldThe Couriers world, I mean of courseon this
great, this momentous subject, that I have made it the subject of my
Prophets Chamber column.

He gathered up the sheets of his M.S. he had written, and passed them
over the table to Ralph Bastin.

You will see, I have written it in the most simple, almost colloquial
style, Ralph, he said. I wanted it to be a mans quiet, earnest, simple
utterance to his fellow man, and not a journalists article.

Ralph Bastins eyes raced over the papers. His face was a strange study,
while he read, reflecting a score of different, ever-changing emotions,
but amid them all never losing a constant deepening amaze.

As he finished the last sheet, he looked Tom Hammond hard and searchingly
in the face.

My dear Tom, he began. His voice was very grave, very serious. Youll
ruin The Courier! You will ruin yourself! The world will call you mad!

They called my Lord mad, Ralph, and they have called His servants mad,
over and over again, ever since.

There was not a shadow of cant in his voice and manner, as he went on:

The word of our God, Ralphwhich is the _only real_ rule of life, tells
us that Christ, whose name I profess, said:

Whosoever shall confess me, before men, him will I confess also before
my Father which is in Heaven.... If any man will come after Me, _let
him deny himself_, and take up his cross _daily_, and follow Me. For
whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his
life, for My sake, the same shall save it. For what is a man advantaged,
if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul....

For whosoever shall be ashamed of me _and of My words_. (_Surely I
come quickly_, Ralph, is one of _His very last_ recorded words,) of him
shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when He shall come in His own glory,
and in His Fathers, and of the holy angels.

Tom Hammond leant forward in his chair to lay his hand on the wrist
of the other, to plead with him. But, with an exclamation of angry
impatience, Ralph, cried:

Hang it, old man, you must be going dotty!

With an expression of annoyance, almost amounting to disgust, he swung
round on his heel.

Look here, Tom, he began.

He swirled back to meet his friend face to face.

Then, with a startled cry, he stared at the chair, in which, an instant
before, Tom Hammond had been sitting.

The chair was empty!

Good God! he gasped.

Instinctively he knew what had happened! Involuntarily his eyes travelled
to the Placard, and in the same moment he recalled the closing words of
Tom Hammonds M.S. which he had just read:

_Then shall it come to pass, that which is written_, ONE SHALL BE
TAKEN, THE OTHER LEFT.

A strange, unnatural trembling seized him. He dropped into the chair he
had been occupying, and stared at the empty revolving chair opposite.

GoodGod! He slowly repeated the words. There was no thought of
irreverence in the utterance. It was the unconscious acknowledgment of
Gods Presence and Power.

For a timehe never knew how longhe sat still and silent like a man
stunned. Then, as his eyes travelled slowly to where the sheets of M.S.s
lay, he smiled wearily, drew them towards him, and took his stylo from
his pocket. Putting the most powerful pressure of his will upon himself,
he began to write after the last works penned by his translated chief:

P.S.Written by the sub-editor of The Courier. By the time this
printed sheet is being read, the world will have learned that a section
of the community has been suddenly taken from our midst. The Editor of
The Courier, the giant mind and kindly heart of Tom Hammond, have been
taken from us.

The writer of this postscript, who was in the room, when the Prophet
of The Courier was taken, was in the act of scorning his message as to
the nearing of the great translation. In a moment, in the twinkling of
an eye he was gone.

The writer has not left the room since, and has no means of knowing
who else among those known to him are missing,not many _personal_
acquaintances, he fears, since ones personal clique has never shown any
very marked signs of what one has _hitherto_ considered an _ultra_ type
of Christianity, a condition of _righteous overmuch_.

When we pass out of this room, presently, and touch the great outside
world once more, what shall we find? How soon will it be generally known
that a section of the communitya larger section, maybe, than we conceive
possiblehas been silently, suddenly, secretly taken from our midst? What
will follow? Where are the prophets who shall teach us where we are, and
what we may expect? Does the end of the world follow next? Is there any
order of events, specified in the Bible, that follows this mysterious
translation, if so, what is it? Who will show us these things?

Again, since I, the writer of this postscript, am left, while my friend,
Hammond, is taken, _why am I left_, and why shall I findas of course
I shall when I begin to go abroad among mine acquaintancehundreds of
others _left_? I have been christened, confirmed, have occasionally
communicated,this is the clerical term, though as I write, it
occurs to me that there must have been some flaw, somewhere, in the
_communicating_.

I have always supposed myself a Christian by virtue of these things,
to which a clean, decent life has been added. Thousands upon thousands,
I feel sure, will be puzzled by this same contemplation, when this
wonderful Translation becomes generally known.

If we are not made Christians by christening, confirmation,
communicating, why have we always been taught so, by our clergy? How many
of these same clergy shall we find _left_ behind.

And I suppose there will have been some kind of kindred process at work
among the Nonconformists bodiesin pulpit and pew, alike. For ourselves,
we have come little in contact with Nonconformity, but, if what is
accepted generally, to-day, as to the religious situation, be truethat
the curse of the Ritualism of the Establishment, finds its parallel in
the Rationalism, Unitarianism, Socialism, etc., of Nonconformitythen I
shall expect to find as many Nonconformists, lay and ministerial, _left_
behind from this mysterious, spiritual translation, as churchmen.

There came a tap at the door. The messenger boy Charley, appeared. He
glanced towards the empty Editors chair, then stammered.

I beg pardon, sir, I thought Mr. Hammond was here, sir. They have jest
blown up the tube to know if the Prophets column was ready.

Ralph Bastin noticed that the eyes of the boy flitted from his face to
the placard.

Know what that means, Charley? Bastin asked.

Yus, sir, leastways, I knows what Mr. Hammond means by it! E sez that
Jesus Christs comin back, an goin to take all the real Christians
out er the world, an nobody wont see em go, nor nothink. I eard Mr.
Hammond splainin it all to a gent, tother day.

Curious to know if the boy himself had thought seriously at all of the
matter, Bastin said:

What do _you_ think of it, Charley?

Wal, its like this, sir, I aint been to no Sunday School since I wus
quite a young un, bout eight perhaps. An I never goes to no Church nor
Chapel, cos why? Why cos Sundays the only daycepts my olidayswhen I
gits any chance fur any rickreation or fresh hair. So I aint up much in
ligious things. But my sister, Lulu, she walks out wi a chap as teaches
in a Sunday Schoolleastways, he oosed to afore he took up wi our Lulu,
but now e wants is Sunday School time fur spoonying, an e can spoon,
sir, theres no errorwell, knowin as e oosed to do summat at ligion,
I ups an arsks im about what Mr. Hammond said, about that takin away
business, an e (Jimmy Doubleyou, Lulus chap, I mean, sir,) larfed,
an said, Dont yer blieve any sich rot! Dyer think Gawd ud go an
_kidnap_ all Is people like that?[1]

    [1] At a Bible-Reading in Malvern in the house of one of Gods
    choicest saints, Miss Ann Boobbyer, where the precious truth of
    _The Rapture_ was being unfolded, a minister present, who was
    much used of God, as an evangelist, started up, and cried,

    What! My Lord coming to _Kidnap_ all His people? Never! Never!
    Ill not believe that!

Ralph Bastin would have smiled, at any other time, at this curious
reply. But, to-night, his soul was too sobered. Gathering up the sheets
of M.S.s, he clipped them together, stamped them with Hammonds
mechanical imprimatur, and handed the sheaf to the lad, giving him
instructions to deliver them in the Composing Room.

As the lad left the room, he sat back in his chair, and tried to think
out the position of affairs. He had hardly settled himself down, before
the messenger boy returned.

Scuse me, sir, the lad began, but summat curious hev appened.
Theres two holy Joes, in the Composing room, an one in the Sterio
roomleastways, they oosed to bean theys all three bunked off,
somewheres, nobody seed em go, an their coats an ats is ung hup where
they ussally is, an some o the chaps says as theys translated. Alf
Charman, one o the comps, oosed to talk like Mr. Ammond did, sir

The boy looked a trifle fearsomely at the empty editors chair, as he
added.

Mr. Ammond, sir, IerI suppose asee aint.

Mr. Hammond has gone out! Bastin rapped out the words quite sharply.
All this talk of the missing men was getting on his nerves.

That will do, Charley! he added.

The lad walked slowly to the door, his eyes fixed on the placard, his
lips moving to the words, _To-day? Perhaps!_

Coorius! he muttered as he passed out of the room.

Ralph Bastin tried again to settle himself down for a quiet think.
Suddenly he started to his feet, wild of eye, and with horror in his face.

Viola? he muttered. My beautiful little Viola? She has talked
continuously of the Christ of late. Has she been?

He seized his hat, and with a crushed down sob of literal fear, he rushed
away.

Outside the office he came upon a hansom. He leaped into it, shouting the
Bloomsbury address to the man.

Drive for your life! he yelled. A sovereign for you if you get me
there quickly!

The mans horse was fresh. They rushed through the streets. Arriving
at the house, he tossed the driver his promised sovereign, and letting
himself in with his latch key, he dashed into the drawing room. It was
empty!

He was leaving the room hurriedly, when he encountered the landlady.
Miss Viola has gone to bed, sir, she overtired herself, visiting the
sick-poor with her flowers, and all that, to-day, and she

Thanks! with a hurried nod he raced up the stairs. The childs bedroom
was next to his own. He entered it without knocking. He was too much
agitated to stand upon ceremony.

The room was in darkness, he struck a match, laid it to the gas nipple,
then shot a quick glance at the bed. In that first glance, he saw that it
was empty. He went close up to the bed, it had been occupied, he could
see that. He thrust his hand well down under the clothes. There was faint
body warmth left in the beddingor it seemed so to him.

God help me? he groaned. And two great tears fell glittering from his
eyes.

Viola! Viola! my precious darling! he moaned. You were my life, my

His emotion choked him. He was dropping into the chair by the bedside,
when he noticed that the back and seat of the chair were strewn with the
under-clothing, which the child had evidently placed there when disrobing.

With eyes blinded with tears, he lifted the dainty garments in a pile,
and laid them on the foot of the bed. Then he dropped back into the
chair, buried his face in the pillowthe impress of the lost, beautiful
head was left in the pillowand wept.

For five minutes he remained thus. Then rousing himself, he muttered:I
must play the man! and get back to the office and lay hold of things.

He left the room, and managed to clear the house without encountering his
landlady. Lucky in finding a hansom, he had himself driven first to the
central News Agency. He wanted to find out if anything of the mystery was
generally known.

The careless-minded, light-hearted tapists, clerks and journalists, were
laughing over the few vague rumours of the translation that had reached
them.

He said nothing of what he knew, and drove on to the office.

If the world has to go on, for a time, just as it _has_ been going, in
spite of this wonderful thing, he muttered, then, as acting editor of
the Courier, I had better stifle every feeling, save the professional,
and give LondonEnglandthe best morning issue under the new condition of
things.




CHAPTER XXV.

FOILED!


Thin and pale, but with the likeness of God shining in her dark
eyesthere was the bruise-like colour of great exhaustion under each
eyeMrs. Joyce sat wearily stitching at her warehouse needle-work.

Jem Joyce, the drunken, reprobate husband, was serving a six weeks
sentence for his old crime, drunken disorderliness in the streets, and
assaulting the police. His time would soon be up. The fearsome wife had
recalled the fact, that very day, though she could not be sure of the
_actual_ date.

As she worked now her voice whispered low in song:

    It may be in the evening,
      When the work of the day is done,
    And you have time to sit in the twilight
      And watch the sinking sun,
    When the long, bright day dies slowly
      Over the sea,
    And the hour grows quiet and holy
      With thoughts of Me;
    While you hear the village children
      Passing along the street,
    Among those thronging footsteps
      May come the sound of _My_ feet.
    Therefore I tell _you_: Watch
      By the light of the evening-star,
    When the room is growing dusky
      As the clouds afar;
    Let the door be on the latch
      In your home,
    For it may be through the gleaming
      I will come.

Low, soft, yearning in its passionate longing for her Lords Return,
she began again to hum her lay, when a step sounded somewhere near.
So keenly had her imagination been aroused by her song, and by her
long, yearning-dwelling on the theme of the song, that she, almost
unconsciously to herself, rose to her feet, her work and needle held
lightly in her hand, her face turned towards the door. For one instant,
her imagination had suggested the step to have been her Lords.

The next moment she turned deadly pale. She had recognized the step. It
was her husbands.

She had just time to drop back into her chair, and, tremblingly, to
resume her work, when the brute entered. He was drunkviciously,
murderously drunk.

He began to curse her, the moment he crossed the threshold. He called her
foul names that brought the flush of a great shamefor _him_, not for
herselfto her cheeks. He sneered at her religion, and blasphemed the
name of her Lord.

Her lips moved, but no sound came from them. She prayed for grace to be
silent, for she feared to aggravate him. Suddenly, he shook his fist in
her face, and hissed:

Curse you! You ! Do you know Ive only come back to you to settle all
my scores. Ive come to

His foaming, blaspheming rage choked him, and he leaped forward, (she had
drawn back from his clenched fist) and caught her by the throat.

She could not cry out. She thought his purpose was to strangle her. He
glared murderously back into her eyes, which his awful grip was forcing
from their sockets. He shook her fiercely, hurling hideous blasphemies at
her all the time. Then he essayed to put his real purpose in view, and
drawing himself up, and drawing her, at the same time, towards himself,
he hurled himself forward to dash her head against the wall of the room.

It was _his_ head that struck the wall. His hands clutched air. He fell
head-long stunned, bleeding, andpresently, he was dead.

The room was very still. Awesomely silent.

Margaret Joyce was _in the air_, with her Lord!




CHAPTER XXVI.

A CASTAWAY.


Madge and her husband left Albany on the Monday morning, ostensibly for
a brief honey-moon, but, chiefly, with a view to recruit her husbands
health. They had gone to a tiny little house among the Catskills, kept by
a coloured woman named Julie. The pastor had been there before, and had
himself chosen this quiet retreat for their marriage trip.

The heart of Madge was broken, for her husband would not be friendly with
her. He was barely civil when he spoke to her, and answered her in short,
sharp monosyllables only. All the old natural pride, with which she would
have met this treatment a fortnight ago, or less, was, fortunately, for
_him_, swallowed up in her new found faith _in_, and her utter surrender
_to_ God. And with this there had come to her the patience and purifying,
born of the Hope of the near return of the Lord, whom she now loved.

She had been alone, thinking over the whole position, for a couple of
hours. The situation had become intolerable. She determined to make an
appeal to him, though it hurt her natural pride even to contemplate it.

Help me! Teach me! Guide me! she cried unto her God. And in the
strength of the divine promises of upholding and guidance, she decided to
go to her husband.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was alone, with a book before him on the table. But he was not
reading. He was not even thinking. His mind was in a confused whirl,
born of the inward rage of a much discomfited man. He had made a fool of
himself, in public. He knew it, and he had been too proud to apologize.
He had spurned and snubbed the woman, for whom he had professed to be
dying of love, and who had made the greatest sacrifice any honest woman
can make to mansince she had offered herself to him, in marriage.

He knew that, in the eyes of his wife, and in the eyes of the little
world he had lived and laboured in, that he had lowered himself, had
proved himself less than ordinarily human.

Some of his own recent platform and pulpit utterances, returned to his
mind, and they stung him by their reproach. The very last sermon he had
preached, before his breakdown of health, had had for its text, To him
that overcometh, will I give.

In the course of his address he had alluded to the shame of some of
lifes failures, and had quoted William S. Walshs Ichabod.

Now, as he sat brooding over his own fall, the lines returned to him.
They mocked him, gibed at him, becoming, to his brooding imagination,
sentient things with laughing, mocking, sneering voices, that somehow
contrived to fling back into his ears, the very tones of his own voice,
as he had declaimed the verses from his platform, weeks ago:

    Alas, for the lofty dreaming,
      The longed-for high emprise,
    For the man whose outer seeming
      His inner self belies!

    I looked on the life before me
      With purpose high and true,
    When the passions of youth surged oer me,
      And the world was strange and true.

    Where the hero-soul rejoices
      I would play the heros part;
    My ears were attuned to the voices
      That speak to the poets heart.

    I would conquer a place in story,
      With a soul unsmirched by sin;
    My heart should be crowned with glory,
      My heart be pure within.

    _But the hour that should have crowned me,_
      _Cast all high hope adown,_
    _And the time of trial found me,_
      _A sinner, coward, clown._

The thought that many of those who heard him declaim those lines, would
be now recalling them, and perhaps be applying them to himself, half
maddened him. And it was at this worst of all moments for her mission of
reconciliation, that Madge entered the room.

With a rare gentleness she began to plead with him, reminding him of
all the passionate love he had expressed for her up to the very moment,
almost, when they entered the church together for that Sunday morning
service.

He answered her coldly, sullenly at first. Then he grew pettishly angry
with her, and snapped sharply at her, contradicting her in nearly all she
said:

But, Homer, she pleaded again, and in the deep yearning heart to win
him back to his old loving self, she knelt before him, and tried to take
his hand.

With an angry exclamation, he rose sharply to his feet and thrust her
away with his foot, as he cried:

I dont want you! You go your way, Ill go mine, and

He stopped suddenly. With a sharp cry of agony, he stretched his hands
out into the empty space, where an instant before, she had kneltfor, in
one flashing moment, she had disappeared from before his eyes.

Madge! Madge, dear love, dear love, dear wife! he cried.

The sound of his own voice struck chilly upon his soul. Deep, deep down
in his heart he knew what had happened_only he would not own it to
himself_.

He flashed a swift glance at the window and door. Both were fast shut.

This is what Doig preached! What Madge believed would come to pass! he
cried, hoarsely.

There was a strange look of terror in his eyes.

Julie will have gone, too, if it _is_ thethe.

He did not finish his muttered thought. Like a man walking in his sleep,
he moved to the door, opened it, and called, loudly:Julie!

There came no reply. An eerie stillness was in the house.

He moved on into the kitchen, the room was empty. A saucepan of milk was
boiling over on the hot-plate of the grate!

He hurried into the garden, calling Madge! Julie! There was no response.

He went back to the house. The turkeys had strayed into the kitchen,
there being no one to drive them back. He made a hurried, fearsome tour
of the house. Every room was empty!

He went back to where he had been, when Madge was taken, with a groan he
dropped into his chair, staring into space with horror-stricken eyes.

Suddenly, as though a living voice uttered them, the words of scripture
sounded in his ears.

_Lest, that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself
should be a castaway!_

A mortal agony filled his eyes, as he groaned:

God help me! I know now that I have only been a _minister_, by training
and by profession, I have never been a son of God by conversion, by the
New Birth!

His untaught soul had misinterpreted the real inwardness of that passage
of Pauls. But it was true, in the sense _he_ meant it, he _was_ a
castaway.




CHAPTER XXVII.

A STRICKEN CITY.


It was not really until business time next morning, that London, that the
whole country, really fully awoke to the fact of the great event of the
previous night. Suburbans, in many cases, only heard the strange news on
their arrival at their particular railway stations. Even then, a hundred
rumours were the order of the moment. Everything reported was vague and
shadowy. There were a few rank unbelievers of the garbled stories of
the translation, who laughed sceptically, then began to grumble at the
strange disorganization of the Railway traffic.

More than one annoyed, belated traveller, remarked in similar terms to
the utterance of a commercial traveller, at Surbiton station:

If there is _any_ actual truth in this story of the secret translation
of a number of religious people, then the mysterious taking away of so
many signal-men, and engine-men, will be an eye-opener to the travelling
public, who never, somehow, suppose that Christianity is a strong factor
in the lives of railway men.

It is a revelation in another way, remarked a second, since it
suggests _why_ we have hitherto had so few railway accidents, _compared
with other nations_.

The tens and hundreds of thousands, the millions, poured into London as
usual. But the snap had gone out of most of them. A horrible sense of
foreboding, was upon the spirits of the travellers. As the newspapers
more fully confirmed the news, London approached perilously near the
verge of a general panic.

The newspapers were bought up with phenomenal eagerness. Souf Efriken
War wornt in it, fur clearin out peepers! a street seller remarked.

But few of the morning papers, (except the Courier) had anything
special to say on the great event. Most of them, in fact, were absolutely
silent.

There were weather prophecies, political prophecies, financial
prophecies, social prophecies, sporting prophecies, commercial
prophecies,but no prophecy of the Coming of the Christ.

The Couriers rival had a brief note to the effect:

Some wild, senseless rumours were abroad in London last night, as to
the sudden, mysterious disappearance of numbers of the _ultra_ religious
persons of London, and elsewhere. Some people talked wildly of the end of
the world. We therefore despatched special commissioners, to ascertain
what truth there was in all this.

Our representative returned an hour and a half later, after having
visited all the chief places of amusement and principal restaurants. But
everywhere managers told the same story, there has been no signs of the
end of the world in _our_ place. We are fuller than ever.

The genial manager of the  Theatre, assured our Representative, that no
later than last Sunday morning, he heard it repeated at his Church, that
as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, _world without
end_, Amen. So that, for the life of him, he could not conceive any one
being such a fool as to talk of the end of the world.

But the note of the Couriers clarion call had no uncertain sound.
Besides all that we have already seen written in the office by the
translated Tom Hammond, and afterwards by Ralph Bastin, the latter had
added to his postscript, another. It was a solemn, a pathetic word, and
ran as follows:

Our sheets must go to press in a few moments, if the Courier is to be
in the hands of its readers at the usual hour. But before we print, we
feel compelled to add a word or two more to what we wrote two hours ago.

During the last two hours, we have made many discoveries, not the
least of which, from the _personal_ standpoint, is the fact, that the
nearest and dearest being to our own heart and life, one whose life and
thought, of late, has been strangely taken up by the Christ of God, is
missing. She has shared in the glory and joy of the wondrous, mysterious,
andto _most_ of us, to _all_ of us surely who are _left__unexpected_
translation.

We have no wish or intention to parade our own personal griefs before
our readers, but dare to say that no journalist ever worked with a more
broken, crushed sense of life, than did we during the two hours we
afterwards spent in searching London for facts.

One curious fact which we speedily discovered, was, that no one had
been taken in this wondrous translation, from any of the Theatres or
music-halls. In the old daysfour _hours_ ago, seems, to look back to,
like four centuriesbefore this awfully solemn event, discussions arose,
periodically, in certain religious and semi-religious journals, as to
whether _true_ Christians could attend the theatre and music-hall.

The fact that no one appears to have been translated from any of these
London houses of amusement, answers, we think, that question, as it has
never been answered before.

Here followed a brief _resume_ of his experiences in other quarters. Then
in big black type he asked the question:

WHAT FOLLOWS, (ACCORDING TO THE BIBLE PROGRAM) THIS STUPENDOUS
EVENT?The Bible, evidently, (when read aright) told those, who have been
taken from our midst, that this translation was approaching, then it must
surely give some hint of what we may expect to follow so startling an
episode as that of to-night. The question is, _what_ follows?

There must surely be many clergymen and ministers who knew _about_ this
great translation, who though not living in the spirit of what they knew,
and being therefore left behind, like the common ruck of those of us,
who were carelessly ignorantthere must be many such ministers left, who
could teach us _now, what_ to expect _next_, and _how_ to prepare for the
next eruptionwhatever form it may take.

We therefore propose to any such ministers, that they gather us into
the Albert Hall, Agricultural Hall, St. Pauls Cathedral, Spurgeons
Tabernacle, Whitfieldswhy not, in fact, into every church, chapel,
Salvation Army Barracks, or even in the great open spaces such as Hyde
Park, and other Parks, Primrose Hill, Hampstead Heath, etc., and teach
us, who are left behind from the wondrous Translation, that has just
occurred, how to be prepared for the next mighty change, for we believe
the bulk of us are absolutely in the dark.

Meanwhile, are there no houses in Paternoster Row, and its
neighbourhood, where books and pamphlets on these momentous subjects can
be obtained, or are all such publishers translated with those of whom we
have been writing?

One effect of the last suggestion, in Bastins _second_ postscript, was
to send thousands of people to Paternoster Row, the Square, Ivy Lane,
and all the neighbourhood. Some of the publishers of books on the Lords
Second Coming, _had_ been _left_ behind, had _not_ shared in the Rapture
of which they had printed and published.

Storekeepers, packers, masters, clerks, were most of them reading up the
contents of their own wares. Business system among them, at first, seemed
an unknown quantity. Deadness, amaze, fear, uncertainty, all of these
things held and dominated them.

But they had to wake up. Their counters were besieged. Hordes of people
thronged the doors. In twenty minutes after the first great influx, there
was not a tract, a booklet, or a volume, on the Lords coming, and the
events to follow, left in the Row.

At any other time those in command of the stores, would have tried to
get the printing presses at work, to run off some hundreds of thousands
of the briefest of the Second Advent literature. But, to-day, fear,
nameless fear held every one in thrall.

The Row put up shutters, and went homeor at least got away from
business.

Business, everywhere, was at a standstill. By eleven oclock most of
the city houses were closed. Some of the banks never opened at all.
Throgmorton Street and the Stock Exchange were in a state of dazed
incredulity. A few members were missing, and these were known to be
Expectants of the Translation.

Salvation S, is gone! some one called out.

Aye! cried another, Id give all I possess, or ever hoped to possess,
to be where he is now. I remember how he tried and prayed to persuade me
once to

There was a rush of members across The Floor at that moment. Some one
had a proposition to make, namely a trip to 101 Queen Victoria Street, to
see if there were any Salvationists left there. A little band, about a
dozen, responded, and the silk-hatted, excited little crowd swept away on
their curious quest.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

HALLELUJAH LASS.


There was one Hallelujah Lass, in the front shop, at the
Headquarters. She was bonnetless, but the big, navy-blue head-dress
laid on a glass show-case. She wore a finely-knitted crimson jersey and
braided blue skirt. Her eyes were red with weeping. She was strangely
distraught. There was no lilt of the song upon her lips:

    Oh! the peace my Saviour gives,
    Peace I never knew before.

Not all translated then? began the leader of the Stock Exchange band,
addressing her.

There was nothing flippant, nothing sneering in his tone or manner.

The girl essayed a reply, but at first it ended in a sob only. Presently
she recovered herself enough to say:

No, were not _all_ translated! You see, sir, the Army, as a body, never
quite admitted the truth of _this_ Second coming of our Lord. It has
always preached that we, as an Army of Salvation, were raised up by God
to get _all the world_ converted. A lady in the train, as I came up to
business, only yesterday

The girl sighed wearily, as she interpolated, Yesterday seems as far off
as Wesleys times. But, only yesterday, this lady, in the train talked to
me about the Lords near returnthat is how _she_ put itand said, God
is undoubtedly using the Army in evangelizing the distant heathen, and
thus allowing them to fulfil His purpose in calling out those who are to
form the Bride of the Heavenly Bridegroombut, believe me, my dear, the
world will never be converted _before_ Christ comes for His Church.

She talked to me very beautifully, and simply, only, as she said, one
could only grasp these truths in proportion as one kept clear in their
minds the things which belonged to the separate dispensations.

If, she said, The Lord came to-nighthow little she or I dreamed
that He actually wouldthis dispensation would be closed, and a new one
would begin to-morrow.

The girl looked around in a bewildered way, almost as though she was
looking for something she had lost.

I have never known anything about the dispensations, and their bearing
on the Bible, she went on. The Army has always taught us that we should
_all_ die, lie in our graves until the _last Day_, then appear before
the Great White Throne, and be judged according to our lives, and all
that. The lady who spoke to me yesterdayyesterday? oh, how far off it
seemsexplained to me, _from the Bible_, that true Christians would
_never_ appear before the Great White Throne.

That when the Great White Throne shall be set, the real Christian will
be seated in glory _with_ Jesus, the Judge. And only the wicked, unsaved
dead will be judged there. The sin of the _true_ Christian, she said, is
done with, settled, put away at the Cross.

There is therefore _now no_ condemnation (_judgment_) to them who are
_in_ Christ Jesus. He that heareth, and believeth on Jesus, _hath_
everlasting life, and _shall not come into the judgment_, but _is_
passed from death unto life.

She told me that the true Christian, who might be living, when the Lord
should Return, would be caught up _into the air_, with all the Christian
dead, who will rise from their graves; and, that then the only judgment
that can ever come to the Christian, will take place. That will be at
Christs judgment _of Rewards_. She said that eternal life did not enter
into the question. That was settled once and for ever, but at Christs
Reward-judgment, the Christians _work_ would be tried.

Some of the silk-hatted listening men began to fidget. All this talk was
foreign and uninteresting to them.

The lady, the girl went on, promised to meet me this morning at the
station, at the same time as we met yesterday, _Should the Lord Tarry_
she said. But I saw nothing of her this morning. She had been _caught
up_, of course, to meet her Lord in the air, and I

The girls voice broke, her eyes streamed with tears. One of the youngest
of the stock-brokers asked:

But why, if Salvationists are Christians, are _you_ here? Why were _you_
not translated?

God help me! she cried, I know _now_, now that it is too late, that
I was never converted. I was drawn into an Army meeting by reports I
heard of the singing and music. The Armys methods fascinated methe
young officer who came to our town, was a very taking fellow. He talked
to me in an after-meeting, I wept with the many emotions that were at
work within me; I went to the penitent formandandafterwards joined the
Salvation Armybut I know _now_, I was not really saved.

She caught her breath in a quick sob, then a little glow suddenly filled
her face, as she added:

But I have settled the matter this morning. I have yielded,
intelligently to Christ, and I know that

    Jesus with me is united,
      Doubting and fears they are gone;
    With Him now my soul is delighted,
      I and King Jesus are one.

And, she cried, her eyes flashing with a holy light, If witnessing for
Jesus means martyrdom, then, by Gods grace, Ill show by my death that

Are there many Salvationists left? interrupted one of her listeners.

A quick flush dyed her cheek; as she replied:

I _cant_ say! There are some here at head-quarters, whom I should not
have thought would have been _left behind_, but who are. Though I dont
believe there will be more, if so many Salvationists, as other sects, _in
proportion_, be found to be left behind, or

The sound of thousands of tramping feet broke into the girls speech. The
little crowd of Stock-brokers rushed to the door.

A dense mass of men and women were marching up the street. Every face was
set and serious. There were many clergymen and ministers in the crowd, if
the clerical collar and ministerial garb gave true indication of their
calling.

To St. Pauls! To St. Pauls! a stentorian voice was shouting.

The stock-brokers joined the mighty crowd, which, grim, resolute, silent,
swept on.

       *       *       *       *       *

By midnight, or soon after, a few hours only after the great Translation,
the hordes of the vicious that festered in the slumswomen, as well as
men, _aliens_ and British alikehad heard something of what had happened,
and creeping from their filthy lairs, began, at once to become a menace
to public life and property.

Many of the police beats were unprotected, the men who had been
patrolling them sharing in the sudden glorious Rapture of their Lords
return. By midnight, the whole police service had become temporarily
disorganized, if not actually demoralized.

Scotland Yard heads of departments were missing, as well as local
Superintendents, Sergeants, etc. In many cases there was no one to give
orders, or to maintain control. And where leaders _were_ left, they were
often too scared and unnerved to exercise a healthful authority.

Under these circumstances the hordes of vicious, and out of work grew
bolder every hour. They had no fear of the Spiritual character of the
strange situation, for God, to them, was a name only to blaspheme. Hell
was a merry jest to them, a synonym for warmth and rest,a combination
which had been all too rare with them on earth. Besides, Hell had no
shadow of terror to people who, for years, had suffered the torments of a
life in a literal hell in London.

Shops, and private houses, and some of the larger business houses had
been openly burgled. A rumour got abroad, that the Banks were to be
raided.

Ralph Bastin, passing the Bank of England, found that the guard of
Soldiers had been quadrupled, and this too for the _day_-time. Curious to
know how the Translation of the night before had affected the army, he
asked one of the privates if any of the London soldiers were missing?

All the blue-lights, (as we calls the Christians, sir,) is missin.
Yer see, sir, if a feller perfesses to be a Chrishun in the Army, an
aint real, e soon gits the perfession knocked outer im. On the other
han if es real, why all the persekushun ony drives is ligion deeper
inter im. Yes, all the blue-lights is gone, sir, an any amount o
officers.

These, as is gone, is mosly the middle-age an ole ones, an those
wots been in India, Malta, an other furrin stations. Ive knowed
lots o that sort o officer, as oosed to hev Bible-Readins at their
Bungalows. Ah, they wur _right_, they wur, the other wur wrong, an the
wrong uns knows to-day as theys out o luck!

If yer arsks my erpinun, ser, I sez, that Londons full o fools,
to-day, fur if wed all been doin an thinkin as wed oughter, why wed
be now up in Glory wi Jesus. Ive yeard the truth at Sodger Homes, an
sich places, an Ive sung wi lots o others:

    Blessed are those whom the Lord finds watching;
      In his glory they shall share:
    If He shall come at the dawn or midnight,
      Will He find us watching there?

    O, can we say we are ready, brother?
      Ready for the souls bright home?
    Say, will He find you and me still watching,
      Waiting, waiting, when the Lord shall come?

The man suddenly straightened himself, and glanced away from Bastin. An
officer was approaching.

Ralph Bastin walked away, the thought that filled his mind, was of the
strange mood that had suddenly come over _every_one, since to-day,
everybody seemed ready to talk freely of religious things.

He moved on up Cheapside, his destination being St. Pauls Cathedral.




CHAPTER XXIX.

IN ST. PAULS.


The cathedral was packed, packed out to the doors. The aisles, and every
other inch of standing-room was a solid Jam. The whole area of the
interior showed one black mass of silent waiting, expectant peopleit was
curious to note that almost every woman had donned black, in some form or
other.

The great organ was silent. No one dreamed of singing. The choir seats
were full of strangers. The stalls were filled with an indiscriminate
crowd. There was no rule, no discipline to-day.

Suddenly the tall, square-built form of a certain well-known Bishop, rose
near the pulpit. He had linked his arm in that of one of Londons most
popular Nonconformist preachers, and almost dragged him to his feet.

There was evidently a controversy going on between the two men as to
which of them should address the people, each urging the other to lead
off. The same thought was in the minds of nearly all who were in view of
the pair, _namely_, how comes it that a Bishop, and a popular preacher
like the Rev. , have been left behind?

A strange new tenseness, a deepening silence, settled upon the mighty
mass gathered under that great dome. Suddenly the silence was broken by a
voice calling:

Bishop . Another voice immediately cried, No! The Rev. .

A momentary clamour of voices ensued. The voices were not shrill in their
eagerness, but sullen, sombre, almost savage, in fact. A moment, and the
Bishop slowly entered the pulpit. He bowed his head in prayer.

Like the slow, rushing sound of the letting loose of some distant water,
the noise of thousands of bending forms filled the place, for everyone
bowed the head.

A moment later, the heads were raised. The silence almost of a tomb
filled the place, when the first momentary rustle of the uprearing had
subsided.

The voice of the Bishop broke the silence, crying:

Men and women of London, fellows with me in the greatest shame the world
has ever knownthe shame of bearing the name Christian, and yet of being
the rejected of Christ,we meet to-day under awful, solemn circumstances.

We are face to face with the most solemnly awful situation the human
race has ever known, if we except the conditions under which, during
those three hours of blackness at Calvary, the people of Jerusalem were
found, while the Crucified Christ hung mid-air, on the Fatal Tree.

It may be said that our position bears some likeness to that of the
people who were destroyed at the Flood. Those antediluvians had one
hundred and twenty years warning, we, as professing Christians, have had
nearly two thousand years warning, yet, London, England and the whole
world has by last nights events, been proved practically heathenor
atheist, atheist will perhaps best fit our character.

The moment came when God called Noah and his family into the ark. But
what never occurred to me, until this morning, was the significant fact,
that God did not shut the door of the ark, or send the flood, until
_seven days later_, thus giving the unbelievers another opportunity to be
saved.

And God has given London, England, America, the world, this same extra
opportunity of being prepared for the Return of the Lord, and the
Translation of His Church.

For, for some years, now, conferences, and conventions, addresses,
Bible-Readings, etc., where this subject of the Second Coming of Christ
has been specially taught, has been multiplied mightily. I have been
present at some of these gatherings, but, smiling amusedly at what I
termed the wild utterances of visionaries, I neglected my opportunity.

Yet, of all men, _I_ ought to have been prepared for this Coming of
the Lord. I have held ministerial office in a church that taught the
doctrine, plainly, in many of its prayers and collects. But I see,
now, that all through my life, I have been blinded by the _letter_ of
things, and have mistaken christening, confirmation, communicating, for
conversion, and for life in Christ.

I see, to-day, that I entered the established church of this realm, and
not the family of God, and the service of Christ. I have never really
been Gods, by the New Birth, until last night, when my dear wife, in
company with all the waiting, longing church, was suddenly called up to
be with her Lord. Not by death, dear friendsshe saw no deathbut by that
sudden translation, that has startled us all so.

A low sobbing sound ran through all the building. The gathered thousands,
almost to a man, realised that they, with the speaker, were equally
lifeless, spiritually.

I was in the room when my wife disappeared, the Bishop went on. She
had been very ill. It became necessary to perform a critical operation on
her. I insisted on being present. I see the scene now.

The nurses standing by the antiseptic baths with the sponges and clips
immersed. In the eerie silence of that room, no sound came save the voice
of the great surgeon, as he cried clipiodoformbandages. Suddenly,
as he half turned to take a bandage of the nurse, the form of my precious
wife disappeared from the operating table. One of the nurses at the
antiseptic bowl, was gone also.

And I, a _professed_ servant of the Christ who had called the translated
ones, was _left_, with the great surgeon, and others, as you, dear
friends, many, _most_ perhaps, members of some Christian church, have
been left.

Sister Carrie gone too! cried the great surgeon, then you may depend,
Bishop, that Christ has come for all His real church, for Nurse Carrie
lived in daily, hourly expectation of some kind of translation. With a
puzzled look upon his face, he said, suddenly:

But, Bishop, how is it that you are left behind, who, of all men in our
midst, one would have thought would have gone?

I had to say last night to him, dear friends, what, with shame and
regret, I have to say to you now, that I _ought_ to have known the Truth,
and have been prepared, but because I was unconverted, I had failed to
apprehend the fact of the Lords near Return.

Yet, how often, on the third Sunday in Advent, have I, with many of you,
repeated the _Great Truth_, in the collect:

O Lord Jesus Christ, who, at Thy first coming, didst send Thy messenger
to prepare Thy way before Thee; Grant that the ministers and stewards
of Thy mysteries, may likewise so prepare and make ready Thy way, by
turning the hearts of the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, that at
Thy _second_ coming to judge the world, we may be found an acceptable
people in Thy sight, who livest and reignest with the Father, and the
Holy Spirit, ever one God, world without end. Amen.

In the burial of our dead, too, how often have I recited, and have heard
the words,

Beseeching Thee that it may please Thee, of Thy gracious goodness,
_shortly to accomplish the number of Thine elect_, and to hasten Thy
Kingdom; that we, _with_ all those that are departed in the True faith of
Thy Holy Name, may have our perfect consummation and bliss, both in body
and soul, in Thy eternal and everlasting glory; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.

Again, the words of Paul in the matter of the Lords Supper TILL HE
COME! ought to have opened my eyes. But I confess, with shame, I have
been blind, a blind leader of the blind

Visible emotion checked the Bishops speech, for a moment. Recovering
himself, he went on:

A blind leader of the blind, because unborn of God. I _ought_ to have
known that Christs Return was near. I _should_ have known it, had I been
spiritually-minded, by the signs of the Apostasy which, (prophesied to
precede the Second Coming of the Lord) have been having their fulfillment
all around us for years.

Since last night, I have lived a whole life-time. I have read the
whole of the Gospels and Epistles, and, taking my true place as a lost
soul before God, I have been born of God. And now, here, in this solemn
moment, I bring to you the Spirit-taught knowledge that has been given to
me.

For a few minutes, he traversed ground already covered in these pages,
then, continuing, he said:

Last Sunday, when, in all the pride of my office, I preachedpreached in
my unconscious unbeliefI quoted those lines of the poet:

    They pass me like shadows, crowds on crowds,
    Dim ghosts of men, that hover to and fro,
    Hugging their bodies round them like their shrouds
      Wherein their souls were buried long ago;
    They trampled on their youth, and faith and love,
    With Heavens clear messages they madly strove,
    And conqueredand their spirits turned to clay....
    Alas! poor fools, the anointed eye may trace
    A dead souls epitaph in every face.

To-day, friends, I know that the anointed eye must have traced The
dead souls epitaph, in my _life_, if not in my face.

Now let us face our present position, as those who are _left_! What is
the future to be? This is what you need to know, what I need to know!
_First_, let me say, the next thing for each to do is to seek the Lord,
to cry unto Him for mercy and pardon, while all our hearts are shocked
and startled, and our thoughts are turned God-wards. For unless we close
with God, become His, and live out the future to Him, our portion will be
an Eternal Hell.

An awful hush rested upon the gathered thousands, as he proceeded:

One thing appears very plain from Scripture, that is, that when, last
night, Christ came into the air and caught up His Church, living and
dead, that the Devil, who has been the Prince of the Power of _the air_,
had to descend to earth. Christ and Beelzebub can never live together in
the same realm.

In the re-creation of this earth, recorded in Genesis, God blessed
everything that He created, _save the atmosphere_, He _did_ not, He
_could_ not bless that because Satan, driven from the re-created earth,
by the breath of the divine Spirit, had taken refuge _in the air_. He is
therefore called in Scripture, not only the _Prince of this World_, but
THE PRINCE OF THE POWER OF THE AIR.

Now, beloved, the Spirit of God has left the earth. The Devil has taken
up his abode here with all his myriad agents, and he is going to make
earth as hot for those of us who will witness for God, as is hell itself
to the lost.

If we will witness for God during the years we are beginning
to-daycalled the years of The Great Tribulation, they will probably
be seven in number, and extend therefore to the dawning moment of
the Millenniumif we witness therefore for God, I say, during these
intervening seven years, we may expect to meet with hideous trial and
suffering.

Antichrist will now soon make himself knownhe will be a _man_, not a
system, mind,he will mislead the Jews, who will now, immediately, return
to their own land, and build their New Temple. For a time, Antichrist
will appear to be the friends of the Jews, but he will seek to force the
most awful idolatry upon them. The mass of Jewry will accept all this.

With the Jew, every Gentile will presently be compelled to accept
Antichrist, and the Roman Beast

A sound of protest was heard from a seat near the pulpit, as the Bishop
spoke of the Roman Beast. But the preacher took no note of the
interruption and went on:

The Devil will be so mad at being cast down out of heaven, and because
he knows such a very limited time to work against God, that he will call
up all hell to stamp out Gods people.

For one instant the Bishop paused. He leaned over the pulpit edge, his
eyes were full of the light of a holy determination, but into his voice
there crept a tender yearning, as he continued:

Are we prepared for actual martyrdom? For this will certainly be the
fate of many who will not bear about upon them the mark of the Beast.

Again there came a growl from that seat near the pulpit. But the most
solemn hush rested upon the vast mass of people.




CHAPTER XXX.

CONCLUSION.


Quietly, giving the impression that the sense of a great shame rested
upon him, the Rev.   the noted popular Nonconformist minister rose
from his seat and faced the congregation.

Many of his own church were there. Many others, who had followed the
criticisms of the more spiritual-toned Christian papers, upon his pulpit
and other utterances, were there. Every one waited breathless, wondering
what contribution he would make to the great matter in hand.

It was evident that it was only by the exercise of tremendous will-power
that he could restrain his emotions sufficiently to speak.

God help me, dear friends! he began, for I know now that I have been
a Judas to the Lord of Life and Glory, whose _professed_ servant I have
been. I have gloried in my success; in the crowd that always filled my
church; in the adulation of my intellectual powers by the Press. But
I have never glorified Christ. In a hundred subtle ways I have denied
my LordHe _is_ my Lord _now_, I have found Him in the silence of the
past awful night. I have been practically denying His deity for years,
I have talked learnedly, when I ought to have been walking humbly,
andand.

The strain was too much for him, tears streamed down his face, he covered
his face with his hands, and dropped, sobbing, into his seat.

Sobs broke from many of the people. Weeping is infectious. In another
moment the released pent-up emotions would have become a storm that none
could have stayed. But the Bishops voice called out,

Let us pray!

Every head was bent, and a prayer, such as Londons Cathedral had never
heard before, poured from the Bishops lips. The conclusion of the prayer
was followed by a moment or two of deepest stillness.

The silence was, suddenly, sharply broken by a full, rich voice crying:

Sit up, dear friends! Hear ye the word of the Lord!

As the people lifted their heads a cry of amaze rang out from many
throats:

The Monk of !

The face of the Monk was familiar to all Londoners by his photograph,
which beside being on sale in the shops, had appeared again and again
in magazines. He had a striking figure, and there was a curious
picturesqueness about his appearance, with his smooth, clean-shaven
face, eagle eyes, tonsured crown, and curious purple-brown cowled habit,
girdled with a stout yellow cord about the waist. His bare feet were
sandaled. His hands, long, thin, with white tapering fingers, were
outstretched a moment, then dropped slowly as he went on:

These are times when no one of us may shrink from speaking the truth
boldly, if the Truth has been committed to us.

With all due respect to our friend, Bishop , I would say, that all the
surmises abroad in London, to-day, and those that have been voiced in our
hearing here, during this hour, are wrong!

The true meaning of the mysterious disappearance of so many
ultra-protestants, is this: The great end _is_ near! Gods work was being
frustrated by those unholy zealots, who have been therefore graciously
snatched away to hell, before they could do further mischief.

Murmurs of dissent and protest ran through the mass of people, like the
low sullen roar, at sea, of a coming storm.

The Bishop thought of his Translated wife. He knew, too, that God not
only indwelt himself, now, but that He had guided him in speaking to
the people. He rose in the pulpit to protest against the words of the
Romanist.

But a voice cried out from the congregation:

Let the Monk have his say. These are strange times, and we would hear
all sides before we can judge.

And the Monk went on:

His supreme Holiness, the Pontiff, had been warned of Godas he is Gods
Regent on earthof the event that has happened in our midst. His priests
were warned a few days ago, and in most of our churches, last Sunday,
certain dark hints of the coming catastrophe were given. God therefore,
now, calls upon you all, through me, to turn to the _true_ church, the
_real_ church, the church of St. Peters, the church of Rome.

A storm of protesting murmurs rolled up from the people.

He waited, smiling confidently a moment. Then he went on:

When all the inhabitants of the earth bear upon them the sign of the
true church

THE MARK OF THE BEAST! yelled a voice.

Another instant and there would have been a hideous uproar, but that
everything became forgotten in a new excitement.

From outside, in the street, there rose the roar of a multitude, crying
Fire! Fortunately the packed congregation within the Cathedral, one
and all realised that the alarming thing was _out_side, not _in_side the
building, so that there was no panic.

In a few minutes the great place was cleared. The Bishop, the Great
Nonconformist, and a dozen other ministers, and laymen, remained gathered
together as by a common instinct, by the pulpit.

What is coming, brethren?

The _power_ of Antichrist, and the manifestation of The man of Sin,
himself, cried the Bishop, solemnly. The Monk of , he went on has
been the first to voice the awful claims of this Man of Sin.

       *       *       *       *       *

A week later!!!

Like a sow that returneth to the mire, London, England, the world had
returned to its old careless life. The fever for sport, pleasure,
money-getting, drinking, gambling, licentiousness, was fiercer than ever.
Everyone aimed at forgetting what had happened a week beforeand the bulk
of the people were succeeding in finding the lethal element.

There had been many conversions during the first forty-eight hours
_after_ the Translation of the Church, but, since then, scarcely one.
Already there had arisen, all over the land, all over the world in fact,
as the American, Australasian, and Foreign Press Telegrams made clear, a
multitude of men and women who were preaching the maddest, most dangerous
doctrines.

Among the most popular, and successful, of these was Spiritualism. Not
the comparatively mild form known _before_ the Great Translation, but an
open, hideous blasphemous exhibition that proved itself to be, what it
had really always been_demonology_.

Antichrists sway had begun. Satan was a _positive, active_, agent.
The restraints of the Holy Spirit were missing, for _HE_ had left the
earth when the Church had been taken away. Other restraints were also
taken from the midst of the people, since, whether the world recognise
it or not, the fact remains, that the people of God are the Salt, the
preservative of the earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Final word! Whether or no, the writer has failed in the purpose he had
when he set pen to paper; whether or no he has bungled his subject;
whether the reader is, or is not willing to accept the main statements
of the special teaching in this book, does not really affect the real
question, namely, _The Near Return of our Lord._ His word to us, whether
we believe and accept it, or whether we slight and reject it, is:

BEHOLD I COME QUICKLY! BE YE ALSO READY, FOR IN SUCH AN HOUR AS YE
THINK NOT, THE SON OF MAN COMETH.

FOR THE LORD HIMSELF SHALL DESCEND FROM HEAVEN.... AND THE DEAD IN CHRIST
SHALL RISE FIRST: THEN, WE WHICH ARE ALIVE AND REMAIN, SHALL BE CAUGHT
UP TOGETHER WITH THEM IN THE CLOUDS, TO MEET THE LORD IN THE AIR: AND SO
SHALL WE EVER BE WITH THE LORD!

                         TO-DAY?
                             PERHAPS!

The continuation of this Book is published under the title The Mark of
the Beast.
